Donald Duck is at the beach singing happily, having a picnic. After preparing the food, he tried to ride on a rubber horse named Seabiscuit. He tried to ride on it, but it repeatedly bounced Donald off.
Donald then saw Pluto sleeping soundly and snoring loudly. Donald decided to make fun of Pluto. Since Pluto's mouth was open, the seawater washed into Pluto's mouth, causing Pluto to cough and woke him. Donald made the sound of Seabiscuit. Pluto wants to find out what caused the sound, but he soon gets frightened by the sound. Donald laughed hysterically.
Pluto then frantically tried to press Seabiscuit into the water, but it kept bouncing up and hit Pluto. Pluto then accidentally sucked Seabiscuit's gas, and he expanded as big as a balloon. He flew through the air and his buttock stuck in a pirate ship. Donald is not seen in the process.
The screen cuts to another scene. Some of the ants unfortunately saw the food, and then the numerous ants swarmed toward the picnic foods and carried them around. Donald saw the ants and frantically chased them away. Donald angrily ranted at those ants, and then he decided to put out infinite flypaper to let the ants stick on it to get rid of them.
An ant secretly carried away a piece of cake. Pluto saw it and gobbled up the cake and smelled the ant curiously while following the ant. Donald saw the ant and threw a flypaper to the ant. The ant wisely goes through the flypaper. But Pluto's nose gets stuck on it, and then the paw, the back, the side, the buttock (similar to the moves in Playful Pluto) with Pluto unsuccessfully removing the flypaper. Donald laughed hysterically, but his smile faded with Pluto accidentally letting the flypaper stick to him. Donald ranted angrily and struggled to free himself. Pluto then swung Donald frantically, and tossed Donald with the flypaper, and Donald rolled over the infinite flypaper and got stuck with all the flypaper, wrecking his hat and the picnic food. Donald looked shocked, and Pluto jumped onto him and licked Donald's face happily and Donald squawked angrily.
The film ended with Donald getting his comeuppance and his body completely gets wrapped by the flypaper. Donald squawked in rage, feeling suffocated, with Pluto happily licking him.