John Talbot is talking on radio to a girl and another man who are flying a plane. He hears them being machine gunned to death by another plane.
Some time later, Talbot appears in a small town in Louisiana, where he starts a fight with some local police. He is arrested and faces trial, where it is revealed he is wanted for killing a policeman and robbing a bank. Talbot escapes from the courtroom, shooting another policeman and kidnapping a woman, Sarah Ruthven.
A car chase ensues. Talbot and Sarah meet up with a mysterious man, Jablonsky, who reveals that Sara is the daughter of an oil millionaire.
Jablonsky turns Talbot and Sarah over to Sarah's father. There is a man working for him, Vyland, who hires Talbot for an unspecified task. Jablonsky is retained to guard Talbot. It is then revealed that Jablonsky and Talbot know each other and have arranged his whole scenario for an unspecified reason.
Late at night, Talbot sneaks out of the house and travels to an oil platform to search for something. When he returns he sees Vyland's henchmen burying something - it is Jablonsky's body.
Talbot then sneaks into Sarah's room and makes a confession: all the events up until the present time, except for the brawl in the town, are part of a scheme. The brawl was to get Talbot into court. The shootout in court was faked; Talbot shot the policeman with blanks. Sarah was invited there deliberately so she could be kidnapped. Everything was set up to get Talbot and Jablonsky into the house. Talbot says her father used his money for a stake in a salvage operation but didn't know about Vyland, and that Sarah and her father are in danger, especially after the death of Jablonsky. Talbot asks Sarah for her help, although he won't say what his plan is or what is going on.
Talbot is hired to operate a submersible for an unspecified project. He goes to an oil platform with Sarah, Ruthven, Vyland, Royale and Larry. Talbot deliberately delays the launch of the submersible.
Larry begins to suspect Talbot and pulls a gun on him but falls off the platform and dies. With Sarah's help, Talbot then kills another of Vyland's men. He calls for help back on the mainland but the authorities can not fly there because of the storm. He is forced to enter the submersible with Vyland and Royale.
The sumbersible approaches the wreck of a DC-3. Vyland admits to Talbot he is looking for cargo. Talbot says he knows what the cargo is - over $80 million in uncut diamonds. Talbot then switches off the oxygen and tells Vyland and Royale they will die in six minutes.
Talbot says the diamonds were a payment from the Colombian government to buy arms during a revolution. They hired a plane from a small airline, Talbot's, but it was shot down by people who knew what was on the flight. Talbot says the plane contained his brother, wife and 3-year-old son. He has planned his revenge over three years.
Talbot tells Vyland and Royale he is willing to die on the ocean floor beside his family. He asks who ordered the destruction of the plane. Vyland confesses it was him, which is heard by Talbot's associates on the oil platform via microphone. Royale shoots Vyland dead. He then confesses to killing Jablonsky. Talbot turns on the oxygen and returns to the surface.