Being praised as the finest fencer in his University is not enough for Balduin (Paul Wegener). As everyone around him at the University praises him for his accomplishments as a swordsmen and celebrates him, Balduin plants himself on a bench where he can be alone. Scapinelli (John Gottowt) quickly pulls up on his carriage and notices Balduin pouting by himself as the rest of the student body is celebrating and dancing. He sees his opportunity to take advantage of Balduin for his own gain. Scapinelli starts pitching his idea to Balduin. While in negotiations, a mysterious wandering girl (Lyda Salmonova), a lower class women, watches, as Balduin and Scapinelli discuss ways to better Balduin's life. After being very easily convinced, Balduin leads Scapanelli to his home. As they are walking down a road, a young lady, the countess (Grete Berger), gets into an accident. Balduin sees his opportunity to rescue her. He quickly dives into a pond, where she was dumped by an out of control horse, grabs the stunned young lady, and brings her to the shallow. Since he rescues her, she makes him a promise to meet with him again. As soon as the men reach Balduins home, the negotiations begin. Scapanelli pulls a contract out from his coat. The contract states that in return for love and gold Scapanelli may take any one item from Balduins home. To help Balduin make up his mind, Scapanelli pulls out a never-ending bag of gold. The gold flows at an alarming rate out of Scapinellis sleeve, which, much to the amazement of Balduin helps to seal the deal. Agreeing to the seemingly beneficial terms, Balduin signs the contract. Scapinelli immediately goes for what he wants. He walks over to the mirror tat is hanging on the wall, touches up and down the side of the mirror, stunning Balduin, as Scapanelli removes his reflection from the mirror, essentially taking Balduins soul. Despite fearing he has made a big mistake, Balduin makes the best of his newfound wealth. He goes to the local club, drinks, dances, and is courted by women all around him. Balduin is soon called on by the count (Lothar Korner) to have him come to the counts abode. Balduin has a conversation with the countess when he arrives, unknowing that he is being watched by the a wandering girl. As they are talking, the wandering girl has climbed up to the balcony and watches them from behind the pillars and banisters so she can stay hidden. After they both leave, the wandering girl grabs a piece of evidence that Balduin has carelessly left behind. Balduin soon finds himself falling for the countess and attempts to arrange another meeting with her. Balduin is soon faced with the reality of his agreement with Scapinelli, when his double, which looks just like he does, stalks him and interferes with his attempts to impress the countess. As he and the countess, forced to meet in private, are meeting again a graveyard, Balduins double make his presence known. Seeing a double of Balduin frightens the countess and she runs away. Haunted by his own reflection, Balduin struggles to lead a normal life. The wandering girl soon brings to the attention of the counts uncle, Baron Waldis-Schwarzenbrg (Fritz Weidemann), that the countess and Balduin have been meeting in private. She brings the note that she found after Balduin and the countess had met on the balcony and shows him. Angered by this, the count challenges Balduin to a duel. Hearing the rumors of how good Balduin is at sword fighting, he is asked by the Baron to please not kill the count. Balduin agrees not to kill him but his double does not. The next morning, on his way to the duel, he comes in contact with his double again. Noticing the swagger behind the doubles appearance and the cleaning of his sword, Balduin soon realizes that his double killed the count. Completely mortified by this, Balduin runs away and buries himself in bottles of alcohol and his money at the same club he was at before. This time instead of him celebrating his new life, he is watching as the wandering girl and everyone else around him enjoys their night. Realizing he isnt going to get the countess being depressed in the club, Balduin heads to her house. He gets to the outer gate of her house, because there is no way to get through the gate, Balduin is forced to climb over the fence. When he finally makes it over, Balduin is faced with another obstacle; the countess room is not on ground level. Finding a ladder nearby, Balduin scales the wall. He makes it to her balcony and sees her in her room. His plan works and the countess kisses him passionately until the double reappears through the window. Balduin finally loses it and runs all over town, outside of the countess house, up the road, finally to his new home. When he gets into his house he frantically searches for something, finally coming across a gun in one of his drawers. In a desperate attempt to rid himself of this nightmare he pulls the gun out and shoots his reflection. Rejoicing in this victory doesnt last long as Balduin soon realizes he has shot himself. Scapinelli enters and finds Balduin laying dead on the ground. He then begins to dance around and celebrate his conquest over Balduin. He grabs the contract that Balduin had signed earlier rips it up and throws it into the air, smirks, and continues his celebration out the door.