California, the 1870s. Roy Colt (Brett Halsey) and Winchester Jack (Charles Southwood) are outlaws and although they are good friends, they cannot get along peacefully. The opening sequence shows both of them engaged in a fistfight over who will become sole leader of their gang. Although Jack wins the fight, he falls to the ground, unconscious. Roy then decides that he has enough of being an outlaw and leaves the gang in search of a good, honest job in nearby Carson City.Roy arrives at the town's saloon just in time to save the crippled banker, Sam Lewis, from an eccentric gunman full of nervous tics, named Ticchio, who is looking for a treasure map supposedly held by the banker. Roy kills Ticchio, while two sinister-looking men in black (Bruno Corazzari and Federico Boido) leave the saloon to inform their boss, the Reverend (Tedoro Corra), about the hidden gold.Meanwhile, Jack rescues a young Native American woman, named Manila (Marilu Tolo) from two bounty hunters. Manila reveals to Jack that she is wanted by the law for murdering her abusive husband, whom she had been forced into marrying. Jack, however, decides to rape Manila as a show of authority to his gang, but as he soon finds out that she is more than willing to give herself to him. The only problem is that Jack is so filthy and Manila has to force him, at gunpoint, to have a bath in a vat filled with ice-cold water. After Jack makes himself "disgustingly clean", he complains when he finds out that Manila will only have sex with him if he agrees to marry her. In pace of marriage, she is willing to accept $10. Manila is definitely organized, and keeps track of her sexual conquests (and of the money that Jack owes her) by carving a line on a wooden necklace she carries on her at all times called a 'cuenta'.Jack and his gang attack a stagecoach full of gold, but are defeated by Roy, who as become Sam's right-hand man and is acting as a deputy in protecting the stagecoach. While Roy is riding away, Manila asks Jack who was that man. Jack responds: "one that would be just perfect for you. He's always full of money!"Back in Carlton City, the Revered and his gang are besieging Sam's house in order to retrieve his treasure map. The Reverend turns out at this point to be a former Russian priest who as turned to the quick and easy life of crime, perennially plagued by chills (since he managed to escape from the Czar's army years earlier by swimming in the frozen Don River). The Reverend is a specialist in dynamite and is his weapon of choice. Sam is finally persuaded to hand over the treasure map when the Reverend dynamites his house. At this point, Jack and the Reverend meet where its revealed that the two of them are old friends during their early days as outlaws in the Wild West, so both Jack's and the Reverend's gangs team up to look for the gold, despite Jack and the Reverend not trusting each other. So, Jack tears the map in two pieces and hands one to the Revered as a bargaining chip not to kill him.Roy arrives back in Carlton City too late to stop Jack and the Revered, but he is nominated sheriff by Sam. He gathers all the citizens at the saloon and with a rousing speech, asks for 50 or more brave men who are not afraid of death to follow him for a desperate mission to find the Revered, who kills people with dynamite. By the time Roy has finished his speech, he looks around and sees the saloon hilariously empty, save for the bartender (Vincenzio Crocitt) who turns out to be deaf. Roy's only solution is to ride off to face the gang's and recover the gold on his own.At the gang's camp that night, the Reverend falls sick, and dictates to Jack a lewd letter to his bride-to-be Conchia. The Reverend tells Jack that his lover is illiterate, but the nun at the convent where she resides will read the letter for her. Jack looks on with mounting hilarious annoyance as the Reverend describes lewd details of him to his bride-to-be. At the same time, a big fight erupts between the Reverend's men and Jack's gang. The Reverend manages to settle the men down by lighting a stick of dynamite and throwing it between them. The Reverend tells Jack that he learned how to use dynamite from his old friend, Rasputin.Jack leaves the camp with Manila and the rest of his men to scout the area for the gold. The Reverend's men follow them, planning to double-cross them when the time is right. Surprisingly, Roy arrives in the Reverend's camp and teams up with him. Telling the Reverend that the treasure map is a fake, and that he is the only one who can help him cheat Winchester Jack out of the gold, Roy persuades the Reverend to travel along a narrow canyon which is supposed to be a shortcut. But its soon revealed that Roy is double-crossing the Reverend in which Roy teams up with Jack's gang and they ambush the Reverend's men advancing in the narrow space. In the subsequent shootout, the Reverend's gang is destimated. But the Reverend escapes with two of his surviving henchmen, and vows revenge against both Roy and Jack. In the meantime, a mutual attraction is growing between Roy and Manila.To shake off the Reverend, Roy and Jack decide to make a deviation from their rout and head into Wilby City, where they pay a visit to a local brothel. Unfortunately for them, the Reverend has the same idea. When they bump into each other in the whorehouse waiting area, a huge fight ensures, and the place is hilariously trashed. Manila eventually comes to Roy and Jack's rescue, leaving behind the Reverend who has to deal with the furious, money-hungry Madame (Isa Miranda) who runs the establishment.That night at a campout, Manila seduces Roy at gunpoint, Manila asks Roy whether he loves her or not, which he replies that he like her more than his horse. Manila offers not to kill him in exchange to marry her. They are interrupted by Bellatreccia (Mauro Bosco), an old enemy of Roy's who suddenly appears and tries to kill his nemesis. Bellatreccia is surprised by Jack, who shoots him to death. When it seems that Roy and Jack are about to finally settle their differences, the Reverend and his last two gang members attack their camp. All of Roy and Jack's remaining gang members are killed. Once again, Roy and Jack have a fist fight. This time, Roy emerges as the victor. He flees into the night with Manila, but they are both captured by the Reverend and his henchmen, who force them to the location near a beach to where the gold is buried having secured both half's of the treasure map.The group arrives at the site, which is an Indian burial place on a hill overlooking the ocean. The Reverend forces Roy and Manila and his two surviving cronies to dig up the loot. The gold is finally retrieved in raw gold dust in several bags in a large trunk buried some 10 feet down. As the Reverend's two henchman haul the gold out of the pit, the Reverend double crosses his own men by lighting another dynamite stick and throws it at them, blowing them up in the hole. The Reverend then turns to Roy and Manila and lights another dynamite stick to throw it at them so he can have all the gold for himself. But Jack suddenly appears, having followed them to the burial sight and another gun battle ensues. But in the ensuing confusion, the Reverend forgets the lighted stick of dynamite that he is holding, and he gets blown up, paying the ultimate price for his insatiable greed.With the Reverend finally disposed of, Roy and Jack haul the gold into a wagon that Jack commandeered and prepare to head off, until for the umpteenth time, they soon engage in another futile brawl over who will get a larger share of the gold. Manila takes advantage of Roy and Jack's brawl to load up the cart with the gold and rides off. Apparently since Manila feels that since the gold was buried on her people's land, she feels that the gold belongs to her. Roy and Jack are too involved in their scuffle to even notice Manila riding off with all the gold. But she does leave behind a gift for them: her 'cuenta' necklace.