Images of a club de tiro (a shooting club), where a man is shooting birds, until one flies away.Vanessa Cartwright (Michelle Johnson) doesn't want to interview a farmer attacked by his chickens, but her boss (Elmer Modling) pushes her. She travels to Villanueva del Pardillo, Spain. At a manor house, a nurse (Carole James) is checking on her patient's blood pressure. The patient walks to a balcony, where a hawk attacks him, pulling out one of his eyes.Meanwhile, Vanessa walks around the chickens - which look absolutely normal - and says her typical corresponding reporter crap. Arthur Neilson (Aldo Sambrell) was attacked. The cameraman laughs about it all, and says that everybody has to do stupid things for a living.At La Mancha, Spain, [I guess it means Castilla La Mancha]. They go into a church to interview Nielson: he says that the birds worked all together. Arthur says that any bird goes mood when they're close to him. Vanessa creates an experiment by releasing a caged canary bird, hatched and bred at a cage. Tmhe canary flies all over the place until it hits Arthur on his face and then leaves.An airplane has problems because of a huge flock of birds. They attack the pilot and destroy the machine. Vanessa is still startled about the canary. The man without one eye feels watched by birds. There was a town which was destroyed by birds.In Rome they interview a couple who blame pollution for the bird attack - a flock which used tactics.San Juan, Puerto Rico, the father takes photos of Junior his son, his wife and two other daughters in front of huge flocks of birdsChristopher Atkins	...	PeterSonia Infante	...	CarmenSalvador Pineda	...	Joe
Gabriele Tinti	...	RodNené Morales	...	Sharon (as Nene Morales)Manuel Pereyro	...	Bob
Carol Connery	...	SusanMay Heatherly	...	OliviaPilar Brescia	...	Alexandra
Nane Wenhammar	...	Marian
Francisco Gutierrez P.	...	Alex
Ismael Miranda	...	PilotDalissa Villalobos	...	Liz
Nohemio Garcia	...	George
José Lifante	...	Governor (as Jose Linfante)
Michael Sondow	...	Chief of Police
Kunio Kobayashi	...	Dr. Murayama (as Kunio Kobayasy)
Eva Cooper	...	Cathy
Tony Cabon	...	Tower Controller
Mariel Ramirez Carrera	...	Lorraine
Ricardo Ramirez Carrera	...	Junior
Jose Ramirez Carrera	...	Jose
Miguel de Grandy	...	Editor (as Miguel de Grandi)
Franca Tomé	...	Tourist
Francesca Pancorvo	...	Jeny
Jorge Bosso	...	Police Officer
Maria Jose	...	Secretary
Kenya Magaly	...	Cathy
Laura Pearson	...	Laura
Luis Da Camara	...	Luis
Tess La Touche	...	Tess
Eva Pearson	...	Paty
Alan Larson	...	Alan
Mario Gómez López	...	Child
Mario Gutiérrez Pinilla	...	ChildOlga Maroto González	...	Child
Enrique Oviedo	...	Child
Raúl Lucas Rodríguez	...	Child
Wenceslao Garcia Galeana	...	Child
Roberto Maroto	...	Child
Margaret Paola Rosas	...	Baby
Samuel Sanchez	...	Baby
Amanda Cacho	...	Mother
Pilar Labarthe	...	Woman
Roberto Schlosser	...	Soldier
René Cardona III	...	Soldier (as Al Coster)
D'Awilda	...	Talent Agent