In 1973, the space satellite Skylab was launched into orbit. Experiments with a lethal alien microbe were performed by being tested on animals. In 1979, Skylab crash landed onto Earth, and a huge chunk of the satellite crashed outside a small village in Spain called Duarte. Now it is 1984. A cow has been exposed to the virus among the wrecked remains of Skylab and dies. Stray dogs are later seen eating the corpse of the cow and one of the dogs is swallowed whole by an organism within the cow's corpse. The virus then starts to spread. At the same time, three American teenagers, Michael, Damon and Samantha on a pre-college vacation are spending the summer in Europe traveling in a rented camper with a dune buggy in tow. Their camper breaks down and they are forced to go into the village and stay for the night at a nearby trailer park. The next morning, NASA scientist Dr. W. Tracer has flown in from the United States to meet with a colleague, Captain J.J. Wells to discuss the virus and the infection of the local lieutenant. Back at the trailer park, Michael, Damon and Samantha step out of their trailer for air and meet an Indian Family, the Bodhis, who happen to be camping right next to them. They talk to the Bodhis who are friendly but act somewhat weird at the same time. The three teenagers then decide to go to a diner for lunch.At the diner, Damon tells Michael and Samantha that he is going to make a quick errand and go to an auto parts shop to pick up parts for the camper. When he returns, Damon says that the store was closed but he noticed that the owner was unresponsive. Samantha tells Damon that he was more than likely asleep. Before leaving the diner, Michael calls for the bill and insists that Damon pay for their meal, much to Damon's chargin after he says that Michael didn't even like his meal. When the waitress brings the bill, her hair is all messed up and her nose is bleeding as well. Meanwhile, Dr. Tracer and Captain Wells are examining the deformed corpse of the local lieutenant at a hotel. The lieutenant became deformed as a result of the alien virus. Blood from the lieutenant's face splatters on the shirt of Captain Wells. Dr. Tracer and Captain Wells then go to a secret NASA laboratory outside the village to work on a cure. Dr. Tracer intends on using Wells as a guinea pig for the cure. When Wells finds out he is infected due to the lieutenant's blood splattering on his shirt, he tells Dr. Tracer that he is unsure whether to kill the doctor or himself. He then tells Dr. Tracer to find another "guinea pig" and commits suicide by shooting himself in the head. Back at the trailer park, Samantha has had enough of being treated unfairly by Michael and Damon and decides to take the dune buggy and look around the village for the rest of the day. Michael and Damon decide to repair the camper. While in the village, Samantha encounters Dr. Tracer, but ignores the doctor's plea to come with him on behalf of the alien virus. While at a local grocery store, Samantha encounters an infected man wearing a weird mask who then takes her outside to have her smashed by a garbage truck driven by an infected villager. Samantha however, escapes her fate by attacking the masked man and leaves him to get run over by the truck. She is then confronted by Dr. Tracer again who takes her to the local hotel to work on a cure for the alien virus. She then wanders around the hotel hallway and notices that all but one door is locked. She then goes inside the unlocked room and notices, to her horror, the deformed corpse of the lieutenant. An alien then bursts out of the lieutenant's face and nearly attacks Samantha, but she is saved by Dr. Tracer.Later that night, Michael and Damon are still repairing the camper. They realize that Samantha has been gone unusually long, and decide to go into the village to look for her. Michael tells Damon to see Mr. Bodhi for help on getting the camper started back up. Damon knocks on the Bodhis' trailer door, but there is no answer. Damon then wanders in to ask for help, only to see the corpses of Mrs. Bodhi and Baby Bodhi, the Bodhis' daughter, and presumably the face-bursting aliens too. Damon runs out sickened and throws up in a garbage can. Michael thinks that Damon is joking around, but Damon insists that he is not and tells Michael to look in the trailer for himself. He opens the door and notices a spilled bottle of tomato juice as well as Baby's tricycle and doll. Mr. Bodhi's bloody corpse then falls down and shocks Michael, who immediately closes the trailer door. Michael and Damon immediately drive the camper back into the village to look for Samantha. Upon arriving, they go inside the hotel and find Samantha as well as Dr. Tracer, whom they pin down to the floor under the impression he kidnapped Samantha. Dr. Tracer tells Michael and Damon that it isn't what they think and Samantha tells them to let the doctor go, which they do. Dr. Tracer then explains about what is really going on and about the alien virus. He also mentions that if nothing is done about the virus, then all of Europe will get wiped out in 9 weeks. Michael then drives the dune buggy to the NASA lab, after Tracer mentions a canister that could provide a cure. On his way to the lab, Michael is confronted by a Fiat, which he successfully outruns.At the lab, Michael encounters the corpse of Captain Wells, and an alien that has unleashed itself from Wells' face. Michael then steps on the alien to kill it and finds the canister. The lab alarm then goes off into self-destruct mode, but despite losing the card key for the elevator, Michael successfully escapes from the lab with the canister before it explodes. While driving back in the village, Michael is confronted once again by the same Fiat that pursued him earlier. Once again, Michael successfully out-drives the Fiat, causing it to flip over and explode. Arriving back to the camper, Tracer then develops the cure and applies it to the three teenagers. Tracer then uses the camper radio to call for a napalm air strike of the village so that the virus will not spread anywhere else. After that, Tracer reveals that he himself, is infected. Deciding that it is too late for him to inject himself with the cure, he runs out of the camper. Damon tries to convince the doctor that it isn't too late for him to be cured and to come with him, Michael and Samantha so that they can take him to the nearest hospital for help. The doctor tells Damon to escape from the village while he still can and is immediately run over by the garbage truck. Damon runs back into the camper and he, Michael and Samantha escape. The garbage truck is also in pursuit of the three teenagers, but Damon manages to shoot one of the truck's tires, causing it to slow down. The three successfully drive out of the village alive after the air strike hits the village, destroying the garbage truck as well.While driving around on the way to Madrid, the three teenagers decide to stop at a gas station to refuel the camper. At first, everything seems to be okay, until the gas station attendant's nose starts to bleed and opens his jump suit to unleash a horrible alien from his face and chest cavity. Blood starts going everywhere, including a 1950s-esque billboard on top of the gas station and the alien leaps onto the camper window. The three teenagers attempt to escape, without any luck at first, but Damon then turns on the camper windshield to get the alien off the window and the camper eventually starts up. As the alien attempts to bite one of the camper's tires, Damon runs it over and the three move on. While Michael and Samantha are in the back of the camper and as Damon drives the camper into Madrid, Damon scratches his arm and his nose starts bleeding, indicating that he too, is now infected and that Dr. Tracer's supposed cure did not work. As the camper ascends into Madrid, the familiar sounds of an alien munching its way out of Damon's face can be heard. The movie ends there.