Doctor Jonathan Seward [Alberto Dalbés] runs the Halic Sewardis Klinik (Seward
Sanitarium) while doing a little vampire hunting on the side. When he
examines the body of a girl who has recently died, he notices the two
telltale puncture wounds on her neck. Looks like Drácula [Howard Vernon] is on the prowl
again, so Dr Seward pays a visit to Castle Drácula and runs a stake
through the King Vampire's heart. Drácula turns into a bat and lays dead in
his coffin. Not long afterwards, a deaf-mute wanders into town looking for Castle
Drácula (hard to miss the huge castle at the top of a mountain just
outside of town). The deaf-mute is Morpho [Luis Barboo], lab assistant to Doctor Ranier
von Frankenstein [Dennis Price] who has also come to town with his monster and a grand
plan to awaken Drácula and create an Army of Shadows that will serve him
in his attempts to take over the world.He begins by awakening his monster, whom he then sends on a task to
kidnap a French cabaret singer [Josyane Gibert] so that he can use her blood to awaken
Drácula, which he does by giving the bat a bath in the blood. Poof!
Drácula is back, although he's more like a zombie now that he's a prisoner
of Dr Frankenstein. Frankenstein orders Drácula to be fruitful and
multiply and, so, leads him to his first victim--María, a flaky patient at
Seward's sanitarium. When Seward notices the two puncture wounds on María's neck, he
realizes that Drácula is at it again and heads back to the castle. On the
way, however, he is met by the Frankenstein monster, who beats him up and
leaves him for dead. Fortunately, Seward is found by a band of gypsies,
who take him home so that Amira [Genevieve Deloir], apparently their resident witch and
psychic, can care for him. Amira isn't feeling too good herself, having
been recently bitten by one of Drácula's vampiresses. She knows that her
time is short, but she explains to the doctor how the gypsies have been
slaves to Drácula and they're tired of it. She knows that Seward tried to
destroy Drácula once before and impresses upon him to try again and, in
doing so, free her people. This time, she's going to help by conjuring up
a werewolf during the next full moon.At the next full moon, Seward is feeling much better, but Amira is
worse. She has only enough strength left to remind him that the werewolf
will come this night and that he must kill Drácula and the other evil
things and so free the gypsies. Suddenly, the werewolf's howl can be heard
coming from Castle Drácula. While the werewolf and the monster fight it
out, Dr Frankenstein decides that Drácula has somehow betrayed him and
plunges a spear through his heart. Seward gathers up the gypsies, and they
all race up to the castle. The Frankenstein monster, bloodied from his
fight with the werewolf, returns to his own coffin and is electrocuted by
his creator. By the time Seward and the gypsies get there, both Drácula
and Maria have been reduced to skeletons. Seward holds up a crucifix and
thanks God for His divine help. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl]