Following the American Civil War the Texas Rangers are disbanded with Texas Ranger Lieutenant Gene Autry (Gene Autry) accepts a commission into the US Army Cavalry who will now police Texas. His men follow him forming a troop. The American Federal Government now has ides about making friends with the hostile Comanche, blaming the hot headed Rangers and all other Texans for inciting the Indians.
The men adapt with Autry and cavalry Lieutenant Bob Cameron (George J. Lewis) competing for the attentions of Dixie Summerall (Kay Hughes), the beautiful daughter of Colonel Summerall (Robert Homans) the post commander at Fort Adobe, Texas. Their romantic aspirations are cut short when an Indian party wish to have a talk with the cavalry but wearing war paint is spotted by Autry and his scout Rufe. Though Autry and Rufe prevent an Indian attack by opening fire on the small party of Indians when they attempt to signal a larger party to attack, the larger party escapes without being seen. Autry is demoted to trooper and Rufe has loses one month's Army Scout pay. A peace treaty is signed with the help of Duval (Monte Blue), the fort's interpreter.
Gene and his buddies, Frog Millhouse (Smiley Burnette) and Rufe Jones (Max Terhune), suspect that Duval is working with the Indians, and they go to his canteen to investigate. Confronted by the Texas Ranger, Duval tries to kill Gene and a barroom brawl ensues. Afterwards, Gene and his friends are court-martialed for their involvement in the fight. When Gene tries to warn Colonel Summerall and about the interpreter's involvement with the Indians, he is arrested for the murder of a Comanche brave.
Known to the Indians as Chief Tavibo, Duval is now free to continue his plot to re-route a supply train so that the Comanches can attack and capture the cavalry's ammunition. After Gene escapes jail, he travels to meet the Governor of Texas and former Ranger Major Crosby. The Governor reinstates the Texas Rangers to protect the population. Autry joins the bloody battle between the cavalry and the Comanches. Soon Frog arrives with the Texas Rangers to win the battle, during which Duval is killed and his true identity is revealed. After peace is restored, Colonel Summerall apologizes to Gene, and Gene wins Dixie as his bride.