The cartoon begins with Snoopy playing tennis against Woodstock while Linus and Sally are unable to play due to the courts being occupied. (Sally tries to intimidate those playing by stating "her boyfriend" was going to clobber them, causing Linus to high-tail it out of there.) After failing to beat Woodstock, Snoopy destroys his racket in frustration.
Peppermint Patty arrives on a small motorcycle and alerts the kids about an upcoming motocross race, and suggests that Charlie Brown and Snoopy enter. Linus volunteers to be the pit crew and the two pool their limited financial resources to purchase a shabby old bike. Snoopy enters the race under the pseudonym of The Masked Marvel and Marcie is on hand as the announcer. Charlie Brown and Snoopy crash within minutes of the start of the race, and an ambulance shuttles them off for immediate medical care.
In the confusion, Snoopy is admitted to a regular hospital while Charlie Brown ends up at the vet. After regaining consciousness, Charlie Brown escapes and retrieves Snoopy from the hospital. Upon return, Linus informs Charlie Brown that motocross rules dictate that all drivers must be fitted with a helmet, which was lost during in the crash. Linus proceeds to outfit Charlie Brown with a hollowed-out pumpkin as a helmet and Charlie Brown, demoralized with such ridiculous headgear, returns to the race.
As the race continues, every other competitor falls victim to various mishaps (particularly assorted mud-traps)...leaving Charlie Brown as the only contender left to cross the finish line (his old bike proves to have amazing durability, despite its poor speed). Then he discovers that those who sanctioned the race could not afford the intended grand prize of Pro Bowl tickets. As a consolation prize, Charlie Brown is given a kiss from Loretta - the incredibly homely "Motocross Queen" - and a certificate for five free haircuts...which are useless to him, since his dad is a barber (and since Charlie has very little hair to be cut). Linus consoles Charlie Brown by telling him that the fact that he won against overwhelming odds is more important than receiving a prize.
The next day, a confident Charlie Brown is ready to pitch another baseball game, saying to the team that in spite of his 980 straight defeats, has come to understand what winning is, and is certain that he will win this game. Instead, a line drive plows past him, causing his clothes to go flying in all directions.