The movie is set some time after the events of Treasure Island. Long John Silver receives grave news from Dod Perch of a massacre by Mendoza, who had also kidnapped Governor Strong's daughter Elizabeth for ransom along with Jim Hawkins. Long John also learns of a second treasure cache on Treasure Island; the only clue to its location is a pirate medallion. Long John visits Governor Strong and his wife and proposes to deliver the ransom before they pursue Mendoza.
During the pickup of the ransom, Long John goes with Billy Bowlegs to Mendoza's ship and explains that Billy shot his two partners to hoard the ransom money for himself. Long John, invited on the ship, suggests to Mendoza that he leave Elizabeth on shore and lure the governor's warships away in order to sack the king's warehouses. As Mendoza carries out the plan, Long John finds that Jim possesses the pirate medallion indicating the second treasure's location. Mendoza begins to double cross Long John, but Long John his men to ambush and capture Mendoza along with the warehouse fortune, while Jim and Elizabeth make their escape.
Back at the governor's house, Jim is offered the chance to go back to England, but Long John has plans to take Jim with him on the second voyage to Treasure Island. Long John seizes an opportunity to charter Captain MacDougall's ship for the voyage. Long John sets off, avoiding becoming engaged to Purity Pinker, and barely escaping the alert local sentries.
Long John plots a mutiny on Captain MacDougall's ship. MacDougall discovers Long John's plan and decides to maroon Long John and his men on an island that is the secret hideout of Mendoza. Jim sets fire to Mendoza's warehouse so that Long John and his crew can capture Mendoza's ship. As Long John sails for Treasure Island, Mendoza awaits his next ship.
Once on Treasure Island, Long John and his men take shelter in the stockade from Israel Hands, who had survived Jim's shot some time ago, but is blind. Israel keeps Long John and his men trapped, killing them a few at a time. Soon, Mendoza's men arrive, and Israel offers to side with Long John in return for a passage to Cornwall and vengeance against Jim. After they flee, Mendoza burns down the stockade.
Long John follows the trail of the map to the caves where the treasure is buried. Israel tries to kill Jim, but Jim leads him to the coast, where Israel plunges to his death. As Jim heads back to the caves, he is taken by Mendoza, who is going to use him as bait to get Long John, but Long John surrenders to Mendoza, giving his men the opportunity to make a gunpowder attack, cutting down Mendoza's forces and leaving the rest marooned. Long John returns as an honorable citizen, but he and Jim ride off.