After a fashion model dies while undergoing an illegal abortion, the attending doctor moves her body back to her home, staging her death to remove any trace of his involvement. However, he is murdered by a stranger disguised in racing leathers and a motorcycle helmet. At the Albatross Modelling Agency, womanising photographer Carlo (Nino Castelnuovo) embarks on an affair with fellow photographer Magda (Edwige Fenech). Meanwhile, a newly hired model, Patrizia (Solvi Stubing), fends off the unwanted advances of Maurizio (Franco Diogene), whose wife owns the agency. One evening, Mario (Claudio Pellegrini), who also works at the agency, invites a woman in racing leathers into his home for a drink, and is stabbed to death. The police question the agency's owner Gisella (Lia Amanda) and another model, Lucia (Femi Benussi) about the killing, but learn very little. Gisella and Lucia are sleeping together; one night when Gisella leaves after a fight, Lucia is attacked and killed.
Maurizio propositions another model, Doris (Erna Schürer), but when she refuses to sleep with him for money, he attempts to rape her. However, he suffers from premature ejaculation and Doris leaves unharmed. Shortly afterwards, Maurizio is stabbed by the killer. Carlo later witnesses Gisella being murdered, and is able to photograph the attack; however, he runs off and is injured in a hit and run accident. While he is in hospital, Magda recovers his camera and attempts to develop the film, but the killer breaks in and destroys the negatives. Carlo hurries home, but the killer has gone—going instead to kill Doris and her abusive boyfriend Stefano. Carlo finds Madga alive, but the killer returns to attack them both. During the struggle, the killer is knocked down a flight of stairs. The killer is unmasked and revealed to be Patrizia, who accuses Carlo of causing the death of her sister—the girl who died in the botched abortion, and whose death it is revealed Carlo helped to conceal. However, Patrizia dies of her injuries, leaving no trace of Carlo's involvement.