A man attends an erotic show at an underground club that culminates with a naked woman on the verge of crushing a live tarantula under her platform high-heel. Elsewhere, a pregnant young woman sits alone on a bed.
Adam Bell, a solitary college history professor, rents a movie, Where There's a Will There's a Way, on the recommendation of a colleague. Adam sees an actor briefly; the man at the show. Verifying online, Adam identifies the actor as Daniel St. Claire, the stage name for Anthony Claire. Adam rents the other two films in which Anthony has appeared and develops an interest in the man, who appears to be his physical doppelgänger.
Adam's girlfriend Mary becomes troubled by the change in his behavior. Adam stalks Anthony, visiting his office and calling him at home. Everyone, including Anthony's pregnant wife Helen, confuses both.
Adam and Anthony eventually meet in a hotel room and discover they are perfectly identical; a scar both have appears on the left abdomen above the pancreas, but Adam is reserved and bookish while Anthony is hot-headed and sexual. In a separate dream-like image, a giant spider lurks among the Toronto skyline. After following Mary to work, Anthony confronts Adam, accuses him of impregnating Helen, and demands Adam's clothes and car keys in order to stage a sexual liaison with Mary, promising to disappear forever afterwards. Adam complies, and Anthony takes Mary to the hotel where the two men met. Meanwhile, Adam breaks into Anthony's apartment. Helen, although realizing her partner is different, asks Adam to stay and sleeps with him.
At the hotel, Mary panics when she sees Anthony's ring mark and demands to know who he is, as Adam does not wear a ring. She forces Anthony to drive her home, but the two get into a fight, and the car is involved in a high-speed crash, which presumably kills them both.
The next day Adam dresses in Anthony's clothes and finds the club key in a jacket pocket, ready to begin life as Anthony. Helen gets out of the shower and enters the bedroom. Adam asks Helen if she is doing anything that night and follows up the question by telling her he will be busy then. As he enters the bedroom, he beholds the now room-sized tarantula cowered against the rear wall. Adam, with a resigned look, sighs.