The plot follows the two characters who have recently married and are going to Niagara Falls on their honeymoon. Silas Parker (Franco) is a thief who marries Camille Foster (Miller), his parole officer's niece, in hopes it will be his chance to escape to Canada. Silas cannot stand Camille and she is blind to how he really feels, believing that everything will be all right once they get to the falls. After their wedding Camille frets about there being no rice thrown and how that is bad luck.
On the way to Niagara Falls they crash their honeymoon bike and Camille dies in the accident. Thinking that he killed Camille, Silas runs away, breaking into a nearby house to call the police but hanging up before he reports the accident. When he returns to the scene of the accident he finds Camille up and washing in a nearby river. Over the course of the trip Silas realizes that Camille really did die in the accident as she starts to decay. While taking care of her, Silas shows a kinder side due to his guilt over having accidentally caused her death.
Meanwhile, the police believe that Silas actually killed his wife and begin to hunt him down. The couple have to evade capture several times and end up traveling with an old rodeo cowboy (Carradine) with colored horses. One of the horses, Maggie, is old and should have died years ago but is still sticking around for some reason. As Camille physically deteriorates she and Silas grow closer, eventually dancing and kissing in the rain. Silas says that while he never believed in anything, Camille believed in him when no one else ever had.
The couple travels with the cowboy until he has a breakdown and sets free all his horses. Seeing that the old Maggie will not leave his side even at gunpoint, the cowboy mounts the horse and they ride into the dawn.
The couple finally reach Niagara Falls and take the boat tour together. As Silas smiles down on Camille, happy to be with her, she tells him that she is ready now. He turns to ask someone to take their picture, and when he turns back she has vanished. He gets off the boat and heads towards the Canada–US border, but stops and goes back looking for Camille. He is then spotted by the police and chased to the edge of the Niagara Falls viewing point. He screams out for Camille – not believing her to be truly dead and gone – and the police, thinking he is still evading arrest, shoot him. Camille suddenly appears, riding toward him on the horse, Maggie. She asked why he did not go on without her and he said he could not. He mounts up behind her and says "I love you" for the first time. They kiss and then turn toward the falls. Camille says "I had a great honeymoon" and Silas answers "Me too."
Then Maggie gallops forward and jumps over the edge into the Niagara Falls with Camille and Silas on her back, all three disappearing into the mist. After they jump, rice starts to fall from the sky.