One day, a small rabbit with an extremely high-pitched, rapid fire speaking voice is fleeing from an unknown enemy. He happens to fall into Bugs' hole. After Bugs calms the young rabbit down, he asks him what's going on. The rabbit proceeds to tell Bugs that a large cat started chasing him for no reason. Bugs realizes it's an old foe of his, Pete Puma. Indeed, Pete is searching in Bugs' hole for the small rabbit. Bugs disguises a stick of dynamite as a rabbit, and it blows Pete up when he takes it. Bugs then exits the hole, to deal with Pete himself. The small rabbit is nervous that Bugs will be harmed, but Bugs assures him that he'll be all right.Bugs encounters Pete, who gives him an exploding cigar. Bugs stuffs it in his pocket for later. He then drags Pete to have tea with him. Pete asks for "three or four" lumps, and Bugs responds by whacking him on the head with a mallet. Five lumps form in Pete's head, and Bugs pats one down with a small mallet. He then shoves the exploding cigar into Pete's mouth and lights it, running off before it explodes.Bugs decides to lead the smaller rabbit home, knowing that the rabbit would be better off with a bodyguard. Just then, Pete appears in drag and rabbit ears, posing as the rabbit's mother. The small rabbit panics, but Bugs tells him, "It ain't polite to talk back to your mother," and winks. Bugs then holds another tea party, but Pete elects to have coffee instead, saying tea "gives me a headache." Bugs pulls the old "how many lumps" gag again, but Pete is wearing a stovelid this time. Bugs simply removes it, causing a massive lump to appear in Pete's head. He falls unconscious at this.Bugs and the rabbit then decide to cooperate on their next scheme to outwit Pete. The rabbit allows himself to be captured by Pete, who makes it back home to find his "second cousin, Paul Puma", Bugs in disguise. They decide to cook the rabbit together. Bugs goes to get coal, and asks Pete how many lumps he wants. He responds, "Better give me a lotta lumps-- a whole lotta lumps!" Realizing what he's said, Pete takes Bugs' mallet away, and tells him, "I'll help myself." He then proceeds to whack himself over the head with the mallet endlessly. Bugs and the rabbit leave, the former remarking, "He's much too smart for us!" Iris out.