The night after the events at Higgins Haven, Jason Voorhees's body is found and delivered to the morgue. After reviving from his wounds and escaping from the cold storage, Jason kills coroner Axel with a hacksaw, and then stabs nurse Robbie Morgan with a scalpel. The next day, a group of teenagers drive to Crystal Lake for the weekend. The group consists of Paul, his girlfriend Sam, Sarah, her boyfriend Doug, socially awkward Jimmy, and prankster Ted. On the way, the group comes across Pamela Voorhees's tombstone and a female hitchhiker, who is soon killed by Jason.
The teens arrive and meet neighbors Trish Jarvis, her brother Tommy, their mother, and the family dog Gordon. While going for a walk the next day, the teens meet twin sisters Tina and Terri, and go skinny dipping with them. Trish and Tommy happen upon the scene, and Trish is invited to a party to take place that night. Afterwards, when their car breaks down, Trish and Tommy meet a young man named Rob. They take him to their house, where Tommy shows Rob several monster masks he made himself before Rob leaves to go camping.
Later that night, the teens throw a party. When Tina starts flirting with Paul, a jealous Sam leaves to go for a swim in the lake. There, she is stabbed through a rubber raft by Jason. Feeling guilty, Paul goes after Sam and discovers her body just before he is impaled in the groin with a harpoon gun. Terri rejects Ted's advances and wants to leave, but Tina moves on to Jimmy, and the two go upstairs to have sex. Frustrated, Terri leaves the party on her own, and is impaled outside by Jason, who also kills Trish and Tommy's mother.
While Sarah and Doug are upstairs in the shower, Ted finds an old stag film and brings it up to the projector. After sleeping with Tina, Jimmy goes downstairs to get a glass of wine but gets a meat cleaver slammed into his face by Jason. Upstairs, Tina notices Terri's bicycle is still outside before she is grabbed through the window by Jason and thrown out onto the teens' car, killing her. Ted is then stabbed in the back of his head by Jason with a kitchen knife. Jason moves upstairs and kills Doug by crushing his skull. Sarah finds Doug's body and tries to flee the house, but she is killed with an axe.
Trish and Tommy return from town and discover the power outage. While looking for their mother, who had been killed by Jason earlier without her knowledge, Trish comes across Rob's campsite and learns that Rob came to Crystal Lake to get revenge against Jason for the death of his sister, Sandra. Worried for Tommy's safety, they return to the house and discover the teens' bodies. Rob helps Trish and Tommy escape and killed by Jason in the basement. Tommy and Trish barricade the house, but Jason breaks in and chases them into Tommy's room. Trish lures Jason out of the house and escapes, then returns home and is devastated to learn that Tommy is still there. She senses Jason behind her and tries to kill him with a machete, but she misses, and he attacks her. Tommy, having disguised himself to look like Jason as a child, distracts him long enough to eventually take the machete and slams it in the side of the killer's skull, splitting apart his head even further when falling upon impact. Tommy notices that Jason's fingers are moving, he continues to hack at his body screaming, "Die! Die!"
At the hospital, Trish is visited by Tommy. He rushes in, embraces her, and gives a disturbed look while staring ahead.