Donald Duck work as a bellboy in Lofty Manors hotel, He was scolded by the boss for the bad behavior to the guest, and he threaten if he made one mistake, He will be fired for good. He also forced Donald to remember the motto The guest is always right. Donald then promise to be a better bellboy.
Just then, Pete and his son Pete Jr. arrive at the hotel, The boss reminded him to be polite, Donald promised, He wave the guest to the hotel politely. However, Pete and his son slapped and kicked him rudely, which almost caused Donald to lose the temper.
He and his son check their rooms on 80th floor. In the process, Pete Jr. literally kicking and sabotaging him with pleasure, Donald tried his best to be patience, and then he suddenly felt something is swept off.
He saw his clothes has been threw out and suck inside the elevator (which Pete Jr. is inside), Donald became nudity, Enraged, he frantically press the button and open the elevator door, Then Pete Jr. appeared, Donald asked him to give his clothes back, But Pete Jr. refused every time, and then he pull Donald's clothes (The badge wrote on the motto The guest is always right was click on Donald's clothes at first) and once again says "No."
Donald reluctantly agreed and repeat "No.", Pete Jr. then throw the clothes to Donald and said he is going to buy Donald a bottle of soda, which flavor is strawberry, Donald is pleased and lick his lips, he went into the elevator, unaware that the elevator went down extremely fast, Donald once again begged Pete Jr. to stop doing that, Pete Jr. finally agreed, the elevator stopped at once.
Donald let out a sigh of relief, and then became very enraged for Pete Jr.'s bad behavior and his limited patience has gone too far, He repeatedly spanking him and dragged him to the boss and asked "Am I fired?" which boss said "Yes, you are fired." But this time he is overjoyed.
Donald pulled Pete Jr. behind a vase and continued spanking and beating him, He then looked at the camera with an evil laugh, and continued beat Pete Jr, who was shouted in pain.