Linda Westinghouse [Ewa Strömberg], a lawyer with the Istanbul firm of Simpson & Sons, is sent to Anatolia to handle the inheritance of Countess Nadine Carody, recipient of the entire estate of Count Dracula of Hungary. To Linda's surprise, Nadine [Soledad Miranda] is the strange woman who has been haunting her dreams for the past several weeks. Nadine is also a vampire and, after sharing a swim, a glass of wine, and some kisses, Nadine bites Linda's neck and drinks some of her blood. When Linda comes to and goes in search of Nadine, she finds her floating in the swimming pool, apparently dead. The next thing Linda knows, she is being treated at Dr Aldon Seward's clinic, bewildered as to how she got there and amnesic as to her name and address. Dr Seward [Dennis Price] puts a notice in the newspaper, which brings Linda's boyfriend Omar [Andrés Monales] looking for her. Linda remembers Omar but still remembers nothing that went on at Countess Carody's beachhouse. Her only memory is of the Countess lying dead in the swimming pool and then being alone at sea. She wonders if it was all a dream.However, Nadine is not dead. She is languishing on a couch, telling her renfield Morpho [José Martínez Blanco] how she became a vampire (Dracula saved her from being raped and initiated her into the secret of the vampires) and how she now hates men and is so infatuated with Linda that she must make Linda into a vampire, too. Hearing Nadine calling to her, Linda goes. Nadine drinks a bit more of Linda's blood. Later, Linda consults with Dr Seward who tells her that, if she wishes to extract herself from the spell of the vampire, she must either split the vampire's head with an axe or pierce it with a pole.Meanwhile, one of Dr Seward's patients, Agra [Heidrun Kussin], who has been alternately babbling about the Queen of the Night (Nadine) coming to see her and then abandoning her, now suddenly announces that the Queen is going to come to the sanitarium to meet Seward. Nadine shows up at the sanitarium, angry with Seward for trying to take Linda away from her. Seward admits that he only did it to get Nadine to come to him. He wants to become initiated into the world of the vampires. When Nadine refuses and Seward starts shouting Latin at her, Nadine gets Morpho to kill Seward while she pays a visit with Agra in order to tell her that she's going to leave her again.Meanwhile, Linda goes missing. Omar enlists the help of Linda's shrink, Dr Steiner [Paul Muller], in tracking down Nadine in hopes of finding Linda. Actually, Linda is being held by Memmet [Jesus Franco], the bellboy at her hotel. Turns out Memmet was Agra's husband before she became bewitched by Nadine. Memmet has fallen for Linda and wants to kill her, but Linda kills him first and then escapes. Steiner and Omar go to Nadine's house in Istanbul, but she and Morpho have returned to their beachhouse in Anatolia. Linda goes there, too. She finds Nadine lying in bed, dying. Nadine begs Linda for some blood, but Linda doesn't want to be under Nadine's power and stabs her through the eye. Nadine's body disappears. Morpho kills himself. Omar and Steiner arrive on a boat. Omar tries to convince Linda that it was all a dream, but Linda knows better. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]