Two young women, Helga Borich [Marie Forså] and Monika Tarnek [Ulrike Butz], one or both of whom
may be a direct descendent of Baroness Dania Varga who was burned as a
vampire and witch in the 17th century, have arrived at Castle Varga. They
are met by the housekeeper, Fraulein Wanda Krock [Nadia Henkowa], and several of her
staff, all of whom are dressed in long, matronly, black dresses.
After getting settled in their rooms, Helga, Monika, and Monika's
girlfriend are taken to see a portrait of the Baroness, who is a
dead-ringer for Monika. As a storm brews outside, two travelers -- Dr
Julia Malenko [Anke Syring], an anthropologist studying the local superstitions, and her
brother Peter [Nico Wolf] -- knock on the castle door. They are having car trouble and
need shelter for the night. During the night, the guests are awakened by
the sound of chanting and bongo drums, which seems to bring out the libido
in everyone within earshot. Julia begins to suspect that something is
wrong and makes her brother wear a cross made out of garlic cloves. Julia
is wearing one just like it.The next morning, Julia recounts the story about Baroness Dania being
burned as a vampire witch during the 17th century. Legend has is that,
because she died without being staked, her spirit is waiting around to
take over a body and return to life. As the day proceeds, Peter and Helga
appear to be falling in love, much to the displeasure of Julia, who
harbors incestuous feelings for her brother. That night, as the chanting
and bongos begin again, Helga can barely stand the libido rising in her
body. Meanwhile, Wanda is thinking that Julia knows too much. When Wanda
attempts to mesmerize Julia, however, Julia lifts her garlic cross and
breaks Wanda's spell. That night, the chanting and bongos again affect
Helga, but this time Wanda tells Helga that she must get Peter's cross in
order to make "the throbbing" stop.The next morning, Julia warns Peter that there is something going on
at the castle that she doesn't quite understand but that it could lead to
their destruction if they don't leave, but Peter doesn't want to go unless
Helga goes with him. When Helga calls him to her room and pleads with him
to help her because her body, soul, and mind are being destroyed, Peter
removes the garlic cross from around his neck and places it on Helga. When
Wanda sees the cross around Helga's neck, she grabs a poker, lifts the
necklace over Helga's head, tosses it in the fire, and smiles. Now there
is nothing standing in her way. She admits to Julia, who is beginning to
figure it out (having written a book about the Vargas), that Wanda and her
black sisters, are actually priestesses of Baroness Dania and that they
are planning for a mating between one of the sisters and a male descendent
of Dania's line, an event that can only happen once every nine years
during a particular phase of the moon -- the night of the Vampire. Wanda
also tells Julia that she and her brother are descendents of the traitor
Donnashova[sp?] who fingered Baroness Dania. Fortunately, one of her
priestesses scooped up her ashes, and they have been been keeping Dania
"alive" for these past 300 years.Now Julia is really concerned. She tries to talk with Monika, but
Monika is "asleep" and Julia cannot awaken her, so Julia goes looking for
her brother. As the sun sets, Monika wakes up and orders her friend, who
is now her renfield, to bathe and dress her. When prepared, Monika and her
renfield head for the dungeon where the priestesses, along with Peter and
Helga, are ready to perform the ceremony. Wanda kisses Monika, which
apparently passes Dania's spirit into Monika's body. Monika/Dania
indicates that she wants to drink Helga's blood. Meanwhile, Julia is still
searching for her brother when she is attacked by bats who manage to rip
off her clothes. Fortunately, Julia is able to hold on to her cross, and
she uses it to chase away the bats.The next morning, Peter returns to his bedroom to find Julia asleep
in his bed. Julia tells him that she believes the vampire was reawakened
last night. Peter chastizes her for believing those "old wives' tales".
After breakfast, Peter, Helga, and Julia go for a walk, during which Julia
finally convinces Peter to leave with her. They spend the day traipsing
through the forest, but by nightfall they find themselves back at the
castle, where they are greeted by Monika/Dania, who plans to drink Julia's
blood and watch her die on a stake. It's not going to be easy because that
garlic cross Julia wears is pretty powerful, so she sends Peter to seduce
Julia and make her take off the cross. However, Julia notices that Peter
is not wearing his cross and concludes that Peter is acting under the
Baroness's power. Julia uses her cross to ward him off.Plan two is to make Peter strangle Julia, but Julia manages to ward
him off again. Later, Julia goes looking for Peter who, by now, is in the
dungeon making love to and having his blood drunk by Monika/Dania. Julia
is chased back to her room by two of the priestesses. A few hours later,
Peter comes to Julia's room with no memory of where he's been or what he's
been doing. She puts him to bed and places her garlic cross around his
neck. When the priestesses begin to chant, Julia is unprotected and
succumbs to their mesmerism. Fortunately, Peter is able to hold Julia back
with the cross and prevent her from going to them.Plan three is to send Helga to Peter with the message that, if the
Baroness can't have Julia, she'll take Helga instead. When Helga runs off
to join the Baroness, Peter grabs Julia and they follow Helga. She leads
them to an altar in the forest, where a stake has been erected. As Helga
nears the stake, Julia shouts, "No!" Monika/Dania releases Helga and turns
to Julia, biting her neck and drinking her blood. In her weakened state,
Julia stumbles near the altar. As Monika/Dania keeps drinking, Julia
breaks off the tip of the stake. She falls to the ground, the Baroness
zooms down on her, and Julia impales her on the stake."At last, they are free," Julia says, as she watches the priestesses
walk off in shock, "and the Baroness, at long last, is at rest." [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]