Prologue: It is medieval Transylvania. Irineus Daninsky has just slain
Lord Bathory, head of a coven of witches and worshippers of Satan. His widow
Elizabeth is holding a Black Mass in order to exact revenge when Daninsky and
his troops crash the ceremony. Later, as the witches are all hung and Elizabeth
is burned at the stake, she curses Daninsky. One of Daninsky's descendants will
accidentally kill one of the Bathory descendants and set in motion a curse
which will bring hell on earth to all succeeding generations of Daninskys.Many generations later, Waldemar (the last remaining Daninsky) [Paul Naschy] is out in
the forest hunting a wolf when he accidentally shoots a man (actually a
werewolf). This sets in motion the curse, initiated by the man's family of
gypsies, who select one of them, Ilona [Ines Morales], to infiltrate Daninsky's home and make
him fall in love with her. One night, as Waldemar is traveling through the
Borgo Pass on his way to Bistritz, his carriage comes upon a Ilona lying
in the road. Waldemar cares for her at his castle until she is well. Waldemar's
maid Malitza [Ana Farra] warns that Ilona is up to no good, but Waldemar has already taken
her as a lover. On the eve of Walpurgis, Ilona takes a knife and a wolf's skull
from her things, calls upon the dreaded Grey Shadow, slits her own wrist
baptizing the wolf skull with her blood, and then presses the fangs of the wolf
into Waldemar's chest, just above his left breast. Ilona then runs from the
castle, where she is presently chopped up by the ax of insane murderer Janos
Villeya, who has escaped from police custody and gone into hiding on Daninsky's
land.Some days later, as Waldemar is recuperating from his wound and suffering
emotionally from the betrayal and loss of Ilona, he learns that an engineer
named Laszlo Wilowa [Eduardo Calvo] from Budapest has just moved into the area, along with his
blind wife Irina and their two daughters, Kinga and Maria. One day, as Waldemar
is hunting for rabbit, he comes upon Kinga hanging from a cliff and crying for
help. Waldemar helps her down, meets her family, including her precocious
younger sister Maria. As the days pass, Waldemar finds that he is enjoying
Kinga's company. Meanwhile, Kinga is falling in love with Waldemar.One afternoon, Waldemar receives a note from Kinga [Fabiola Falcon] in which she asks him
to meet her at an abandoned cottage near the mill. Just as Waldemar arrives,
she is attacked by the insane murderer. Fortunately, Waldemar saves her,
stabbing Janos in the stomach. As Janos runs off, Waldemar turns to Kinga, only
to find that it is Maria [Maritza Olivares]. In an effort to upstage her older sister, Maria has
decided to give her virginity to Waldemar. Waldemar tries to resist but, when
Maria disrobes, he sweeps her into his arms. They make love, until the full
moon rises and Waldemar suddenly changes into a werewolf and kills Maria.
Malitza, who has been watching, drags Maria's body into the woods and leaves it
to be found as yet another of Janos's victims.Meanwhile, the mark of the werewolf (a red pentagram) has made its
appearance on Waldemar's breast, and he has been changing into a werewolf on
the nights of the full moon, during which he unknowingly kills some villagers.
On the very night that Kinga tells Waldemar that she is pregnant, Waldemar
kills her father. Blame for the killings has so far fallen on the escaped
murderer, whom some say is a werewolf. Finally, Malitza explains to Waldemar
what has been happening and tells him about the curse. Malitza promises to take
care of it, so she reveals the truth to Kinga and gives her a silver dagger.One night, some children playing ball discover Janos's body in an advanced
state of decomposition. It becomes apparent to everyone that someone else has
been doing the killing, and all eyes turn to Waldemar when they remember how he
was marked by Ilona on the night of Walpurgis. The villagers decide to storm
the castle and kill Waldemar. As the villagers, with their guns and torches and
dogs, close in on Waldemar, Kinga gets to him first and stabs him through the
heart with the silver dagger.Epilogue: Five or six years have passed since Waldemar's death. Kinga and
her son visit his grave, and we are reminded of Elizabeth Bathory's curse --
that it will extend to all of Waldemar Daninsky's descendents.Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.