A chaffeur named Kishanlal (Pran) takes the blame for a fatal hit-and-run accident committed by his employer, the notorious mob boss Robert (Jeevan), on the assurance that his family's income will be tripled and their welfare looked after. He returns from prison to find his wife Bharati (Nirupa Roy) suffering from tuberculosis and his three sons starving. Seeking help from Robert for the sake of his family, he is ridiculed, humiliated and repudiated, until he turns on Robert and tries to kill him. Making his escape, Kishanlal inadvertently takes a car containing a shipment of gold bullion. Robert's goons give chase as Robert wants the gold back.
Kishanlal goes home to rescue his family – only to find his wife's suicide note. Unknown to him, she fails and is struck blind. Kishanlal leaves his sons in a public park (at the foot of a statue of Gandhi) in order to draw off the pursuing goons to keep the boys away from harm. In the car chase that follows, he crashes and is presumed dead by the witnessing police, but is revealed to have survived. But by the time he returns to the park with the gold, his three sons have vanished. Amar (the middle son) has been nearly ran over by Robert's goons and rescued by a Hindu policeman; a Muslim tailor finds Raju (the youngest) and adopts him, naming him Akbar; and a Catholic priest (Nazir Hussain) finds Anthony (the oldest) asleep on the steps of his church and took him under his care.
After 22 years, Amar (Vinod Khanna) becomes a policeman; Akbar (Rishi Kapoor) becomes a singer, and Anthony (Amitabh Bachchan) becomes a likeable, socially conscious scamp who runs quasi-legal operations and makes God his 'partner' by donating half his income to charity. The three meet when they donate blood for a hit-and-run victim, unaware that they are related and that the recipient is their biological mother Bharati, who is currently selling flowers.
In the meantime, Kishanlal used his gold to create his own criminal syndicate, destroying Robert's business and forcing a penniless Robert to work for him at a nearby dock. He also took in Robert's daughter Jenny as his niece before sending her to school in Europe. Robert becomes delighted to hear from Kishanlal that Jenny will return, but is distraught that Kishanlal won't let him see her, as he's still angry at Robert for making him lose his family. Eventually, the police arrives near Kishanlal's dock, forcing Kishanlal and his gang to disperse away from the scene. This allows Robert to escape away with another shipment of gold bullion, regaining his former place as mob boss and becoming Kishanlal's rival, determined to retrieve Jenny for himself and get back at Kishanlal for ruining his criminal empire.
During the tide, each of the sons fell in love with the women they find: Akbar falls in love with his neighbor doctor Salma Ali, much to disapproval of Salma's father Tayyaib Ali, who later gives his blessings after Akbar saves him and Selma from a house fire. Amar falls in love with a one-time crook named Laxmi, taking her and her grandmother to his home after arresting her abusive stepmother. Also, Anthony falls in love with Jenny after meeting her in church. Around the same time, Bharati regains her sight at a Diwali festival in honor of Sai Baba hosted by Akbar, whom she recognized as her youngest son Raju.
However, things get out of hand when Kishanlal is double-crossed by one of his bodyguards named Zubesko, who betrays Jenny to Robert in exchange for getting her hand in marriage, resulting Anthony's adoptive father to be murdered by Robert when he tries to stop them. Also, while witnessing Jenny's kidnapping, Laxmi ends up being kidnapped by her abusive brother Ranjeet, who is working for Robert. In their pursuit of justice against Robert, the brothers soon discover their mutual heritage with each other along with Kishanlal and Bharati, reuniting the family once again.
Working together, the three brothers form a plan to bring Robert and his gang to justice. Posing as an elderly tailor, a one-man band, and a priest, the three brothers and Salma infiltrate into Robert's mansion, where Salma helps Jenny and Laxmi escape while the brothers finally reveal themselves and defeat Robert and the mobsters before sending them to jail for good.
Despite justice being served for Robert and his gang, Kishanlal is sent back to prison for his past crimes, much to Bharati's dismay. However, Kishanlal comforts Bharati by telling her that their sons are reunited and have grown up, which is the only thing that matters to him the most. Kishanlal is then briefly released from his cell to share a heartfelt hug with his sons. The film ends with the three brothers and their loved ones happily riding into the sunset.
The film was inspired by Pakistani diamond jubilee film Talash released in 1976 starring Shabnam, Nadeem and Babra Sharif.