Chuck Murray (Bud Abbott) and Ferdie Jones (Lou Costello), gas station attendants, aspire to better jobs waiting tables at Chez Glamour, a high-class nightclub, where Ted Lewis and The Andrews Sisters perform. However, Chuck and Ferdie cause a ruckus and wind up back at the gas station. Gangster "Moose" Mattson (William B. Davidson) brings his car in for servicing, and Chuck and Ferdie are caught inside the vehicle when the gangster speeds off to escape the police. During the chase shots are exchanged, and the gangster is killed by gunfire. However, through a strange clause in his will--which says that whoever is with him when he dies will get whatever he owns--Chuck and Ferdie inherit his rural nightspot, the Forrester's Club. Mattson had also given a cryptic clue about a hidden stash of money, stating that he always kept it "in his head," but its existence and location remained a mystery.
Charlie Smith, an associate of Mattson's crooked attorney, arranges to accompany the boys on a freelance bus to the rundown "club". The boys are unaware that Smith (Marc Lawrence) is a member of Moose's gang and has come along to secretly look for the money. The unscrupulous bus driver, however, abandons them and three other passengers--a doctor, a radio actress and a waitress--at the club during a heavy rainstorm.
As the night progresses, strange things happen. Smith disappears while searching the basement, and his corpse turns up unexpectedly several times. The water in the tavern is undrinkable. Ferdie's bedroom turns out to be rigged with hidden gambling equipment. The girls are scared by what appears to be a ghost. Two detectives show up but vanish soon after starting to investigate. Chuck and the doctor decide to search for the detectives while Ferdie examines a map to find the quickest route back to town. However, the candles on the table move mysteriously and scare Ferdie.
Ferdie eventually finds Moose's treasure hidden inside the stuffed moose head over the fireplace. Members of the gang (including the so-called detectives) appear and demand the money, leading to a chase through the building. Ferdie scares them off by making the sound of a police siren. The boys plan to fix up the club, and the doctor announces that the water they drank last night has therapeutic properties and Ferdie and Chuck should transform the club into a health resort and hire Ted Lewis and The Andrews Sisters to headline. As it turns out, the maitre d' who fired them at the start of the film (Mischa Auer) now works for them as a waiter.