The movie is set in a fictional urban world, ruled by a “Ministry of Information”. The only recognizable ideologies are consumerism and terrorism control, leading to the desire to possess complete information about every citizen and the installation of a massive bureaucracy. Sam Lowry is an intelligent, but unambitious, low-level government clerk who frequently daydreams of saving a damsel in distress. His mother Ida is very wealthy and well-connected and obsessed with plastic surgery. When a fly gets jammed in a printer and results in the accidental incarceration and death-during-torture of Archibald Buttle (instead of Archibald Tuttle), Sam is assigned the task of rectifying the error. Visiting Buttle's widow, Sam encounters her neighbour Jill Layton. He is astonished to see that, although her hair is dark and cropped instead of blonde and long, her clothes masculine, and her demeanor gruff and walled off, she is the woman from his dreams. Jill is trying to help Mrs. Buttle determine what happened to her husband, but her efforts are obstructed by an infuriating bureaucracy. Unknown to her, she is now considered a terrorist accomplice of Tuttle for attempting to report the mistake of Buttle's arrest to a government which would rather dispose of all evidence and witnesses than admit its error. Sam finds Jill, declaring his love for her, but a wary Jill tells him that no one touches her, and she has to repeatedly throw him off her big rig truck.
Tuttle, who once worked for Central Services but left due to his dislike of the tedious and repetitive paperwork, now works as an illegal renegade air conditioning specialist. He encounters Sam when unconventionally repairing his air conditioning. Later two villainous Central Services workers, Spoor and Dowser, demolish Sam's ducts and seize his apartment as a retaliation for the illegal repairs. Meanwhile, Sam discovers that the only way to access Jill's classified records is to get transferred to Information Retrieval. Having previously turned down a promotion arranged by his mother, Sam speaks with family friend, Deputy Minister Mr. Helpmann, at a party and gets transferred. Obtaining Jill's records, Sam tracks her down before she can be arrested, then falsifies the records to fake her death, allowing her to escape pursuit. The two share one romantic night together but are soon apprehended by soldiers at gunpoint. Imprisoned, Helpmann tells him that there's nothing he can do for him, and that Jill was killed resisting arrest. Charged with treason for abusing his new position, Sam is restrained to a chair in a cacophonous metal shell, and is about to be tortured for a confession by his old friend, Jack Lint.
Suddenly Tuttle and other rebels explode into the Ministry, killing Jack, rescuing Sam, and blowing up the Ministry building. Sam and Tuttle flee together, but Tuttle disappears amid a mass of scraps of paperwork from the destroyed building. Sam stumbles into the funeral for Ida's friend, whose body liquefied due to excessive cosmetic surgery. Finding a rejuvenated Ida with the face of Jill, Sam falls into the open casket and lands in a street from his daydreams, where he escapes police and monsters by opening a door, finding himself in a shipping container size, ready made house, sitting on the trailer pulled by Jill's truck. The two escape the dingy city for a bucolic countryside, living in their little house. However, he is still strapped to the torture chair, where Jack and Mr. Helpmann declare him a lost cause due to completely dissociating from reality. Sam sits smiling and humming the song "Brazil".