Clay Lomax is released from prison after serving nearly eight years. He goes looking for Sam Foley, a bank robber who shot Lomax in the back and left him to be arrested. Learning of his release, Foley hires a trio of young thugs—Pepe, Skeeter, and Bobby Jay Jones—to track Lomax's movements. Lomax locates an old friend, Trooper, and offers him money for the name of the town where Foley is staying. The thugs catch up to Lomax and force Alma, a prostitute working for Trooper, to spend the night with them.
While on board a train to retrieve the money he promised, Lomax is told of a young girl named Decky and that she is to accompany him, with her previous guardian dead. Lomax acquiesces and takes charge of Decky, receiving the money in exchange. He takes it to Trooper and then tries to find someone who would take care of Decky, but is unsuccessful. Meanwhile, the thugs fatally wound Trooper and rob the saloon, taking Lomax's money and Alma, before continuing to follow Lomax. Lomax learns of Trooper's death and that he mentioned the location Gun Hill with his dying breath.
During the journey, Lomax and Decky bond. One night, the thugs attempt to attack Lomax, but he disarms them, and tells them to run back to Foley and tell them that he is coming for him. Later, a rainstorm forces Lomax and Decky to take shelter at the house of a woman named Juliana, who becomes infatuated with Lomax and offers to watch over Decky. The thugs then return and take them prisoner. Bobby Jay gets drunk and eventually kills Alma in his inebriation. Lomax escapes, with Bobby Jay accidentally killing Skeeter in the process.
Bobby Jay grabs Decky and flees the house to find Pepe. When Pepe insults him, Bobby Jay kills him, and Decky takes advantage of his distraction to escape. He then goes to Foley for his money, but kills him when Foley tries to reach for a gun. Bobby Jay is then ambushed by Lomax, who psychologically tortures him while demanding Decky's location. When he confesses that he has no idea where she is, Lomax places a cartridge on top of Bobby Jay's head, and tells him that either the cartridge will explode and kill him, or Bobby Jay will be fast enough to kill Lomax. Bobby Jay tries to outdraw Lomax but cannot and is shot dead. Lomax leaves the money, tells the maid to call law enforcement, and finds Decky at Juliana's house.