The story begins with Daffy Duck in the role of Jack summing up recent events leading up to the start of the story:
Frustrated with having traded his cow for the three beans, Daffy tosses them away and they land right in Bugs Bunny's rabbit hole. A beanstalk erupts shortly after, and Daffy decides to climb it for the sake of the cartoon ("I'd better get to work climbing that thing, or we won't have any picture"). During his climb, he meets Bugs, who awakens from his slumber and sees Daffy, but Daffy kicks him away. Realizing which story is unfolding before him, Bugs decides to climb after him.
Meanwhile, Daffy reaches the top of the beanstalk, excited about stealing the fortune that the giant's castle holds, until he meets the giant himself - Elmer Fudd. Daffy's excitement turns into panic and he runs from the giant Elmer just as Bugs reaches the top. As Elmer closes in on the duo, Bugs tells Elmer to go after Jack (Daffy) instead of him, as that is whom he is supposed to be trying to catch according to the original story. Daffy frantically tries to pass this off as a lie, declaring his name to be Aloysius, and that Bugs is Jack. As the two start to argue of who the real Jack is, Elmer decides to "open up with a pair of Jacks" and captures both of them. Inside the castle, Elmer places Bugs and Daffy under a glass cake dome to prepare to grind their bones to make his bread. However, they manage to escape because Bugs has an ACME glass cutter in his possession. Elmer then begins chasing the two around his castle as they are trying to escape.
The chase continues until Bugs manages to trip Elmer, knocking him unconscious. Bugs wants to leave the place, but the greedy Daffy decides to stay so he can steal from the giant. As Bugs runs towards the beanstalk, he comes across Elmer's equally large carrot garden, with carrots as big as houses and ready to be eaten. Later that night, a very full Bugs rests under one of the giant carrots he has been eating and wonders what has become of Daffy, who is revealed to be trapped inside Elmer's pocket watch, acting like the minute and hour hands, while constantly making tick tock sounds. ("Eh... it's a living.")