The credits at the start and close of the film are played over a backdrop of a large mass of white rabbits, to the tune of "Let's Misbehave" by Cole Porter.The film is divided into seven vignettes, as follows:"Do Aphrodisiacs Work?"Set in the Middle Ages of England, a court jester (Woody Allen) gives a love potion to the Queen (Lynn Redgrave) but is foiled by her chastity belt. He tries to score with her, but gets discovered by the king (Anthony Quayle) and is sent to the execution block. (Note: There are references to Shakespeare's Hamlet throughout.)"What Is Sodomy?"
Dr. Ross (Gene Wilder) is an American medical doctor who falls in love with the partner of an Armenian patient, a sheep named Daisy. Then Ross' wife (Elaine Giftos) finds out and after a messy divorce, he ends up with nothing and the sheep is sent away back to Armenia, leaving Ross to end up a homeless derelict."Why Do Some Women Have Trouble Reaching an Orgasm?"Allen's homage to Italian film-making in general and Casanova 70, Michelangelo Antonioni, and Federico Fellini in particular (filmed in Italian), about Gina (Louise Lasser), a woman who can only reach orgasm in public which puts a strain on her husband Fabrizo (Woody Allen)."Are Transvestites Homosexuals?"Sam Musgrave (Lou Jacobi) is a middle-aged married man who experiments with women's clothes during a visit to his daughter's in-laws. But things go awry when he is stranded outside the house in full drag which draws a crowd after his purse is stolen."What Are Sex Perverts?"A parody of the television game show What's My Line? called What's My Perversion?, filmed in black and white kinescope-style and hosted by Jack Barry (playing himself). The four panelists (Regis Philbin, Robert Q. Lewis, Pamela Mason, and Toni Holt) attempt to guess the contestant's perversion. After they fail to guess that the contestant's perversion is "Likes to expose himself on subways," a second segment of the show is presented, in which a selected viewer (in this case a rabbi) gets to act out his bondage and humiliation fantasy while his wife eats pork."Are the Findings of Doctors and Clinics Who Do Sexual Research and Experiments Accurate?"Victor (Woody Allen), a researcher, and Helen Lacey (Heather MacRae), a journalist, visit a certain Dr. Bernardo (John Carradine), a researcher who formerly worked with Masters and Johnson but now has his own laboratory complete with a hunchback lab assistant named Igor (Ref Sanchez). After they see a series of bizarre sexual experiments underway at the lab and realize the researcher is insane, they escape before Helen becomes the subject of another of his experiments. The segment culminates with a scene in which the countryside is terrorized by a giant runaway breast created by the researcher. (Note: The first part of this segment is a parody of Ed Wood's Bride of the Monster, while the second part is a parody of The Blob.)"What Happens During Ejaculation?"The NASA-like mission control center in a man's brain (headed by Tony Randall and featuring Burt Reynolds as the lead switchboard operator) is seen, as he gets involved in a sexual clinch with an NYU graduate (Erin Fleming) (knowledge that she is a graduate of NYU assures coital success). As he achieves orgasm, the soldier-like, white-uniformed sperm creatures (one of them played by bespectacled Allen, coached by another sperm played by Robert Walden) are dispatched paratrooper-style into the great unknown to make babies.