This film is set years after the first two. The movie begins with the scene of a woman going into labour in a cab. It is raining at night and the cab driver in panic runs out to get a police officer to help. As the officer goes to deliver the baby he asks the driver to call for an ambulance from a public phone. When the driver comes back, he sees the mutant baby killing the officer and the mother. Next, the movie jumps to the scene inside a church where the corpse of the dead mutant baby is found. From here on the main plot of the movie gradually builds up. First, the courtroom drama where Judge Watson (Macdonald Carey) decides that Jarvis' mutant baby and four other mutant babies who are under the government custody be quarantined in some remote deserted island. Second, scenes of how Jarvis (Michael Moriarty) faces his life after the courtroom drama. Third, the incursion to the island of the mutant babies by the pharmaceutical company's boss, Cabot (William Watson) and a few of his people to kill the babies so that his company can manufacture again the drug which resulted in these mutant babies, but under a different label. In the end, all of them are killed and eaten by the mutant babies who have grown bigger while the helicopter pilot is killed on board the helicopter when he tries to escape and the helicopter explodes in mid-air crashing into the sea. Fourth, Lieutenant Perkins (James Dixon) informs Jarvis personally that they have been recruited by Dr. Swenson (Art Lund) to join him and his team in an expedition to the mutant babies' island. The expedition ended in disaster with only Perkins and Jarvis being left alive. Finally, Perkins is left alone on the island while Jarvis, his mutant son, the other grown mutants and a new infant mutant leave the island in the sailing ship which brought Jarvis to the island for Florida. In Cape Vale, Florida, Jarvis' mutant son gets to meet his mother, Ellen (Karen Black) with his female mate and leave their infant child with her before they die from measles.