Whitaker "Whitey" Selby ('THOMAS HUNTER' (qv)), a bearded American gunslinger, thwarts an attack inside a saloon by killing all three opponents with one blast of his three barrelled pistol. He is approached by an old Solicitor who tells him that his father, Mr. Langdon, had died ten years ago and had left his goldmine located in Laredo, Texas, to the son he had never met, as part of a will. The Solicitor tells a convoluted story (full of witty humour) to explain why it has taken ten years for the wills to reach Selby and his two brothers. Selby is handed a document,is accompanied by a picture of a very young girl, and travels to Laredo to reclaim his father's legacy, and to identify the girl.
Arriving at the goldmine, Selby encounters two men on a similar mission, and all three suspect the others of being impostors. Matching their wills, and the photos received, the three eccentric gunmen discover they could be half-brothers, if their father had enjoyed the company of women from different parts of the world. The other brothers are Etienne Devereaux ('NADIR MORETTI' (qv)), a French man with powers of magnetism, and Lester Kato ('JAMES SHIGETA' (qv)), a Japanese and kung-fu artist. Once in town, the three meet Mady ('DELIA BOCCARDO' (qv)), a singer at the Saloon, who reveals to be their sister the little girl in the photo. Mady tells them that their father had fought bitterly to retain his land, but had been forced out of Laredo by the powerful landowner "Julius Caesar" Fuller ('ENRICO MARIA SALERNO' (qv)), a man obsessed by the history of the great Roman leader. Mady suggests her brothers should avenge their late father, take back what had been theirs, and at the same time free the territory from Fullers oppressive gang.
Fuller lives in a replica Roman palace, where he strolls about in his toga, surrounded by scantily clad ladies from around the world, and has a penchant to take his bath in a swimming pool with young girls. He is guarded by a Faithful Servant ('JOSÉ GALERA BALAZOTE' (qv)), and a gang of gunmen all clad in black (ala _Django Kill (1968)_ (qv)). During the assault on the castle, Selby is captured and tortured; but before he is killed, his brothers break in and free him. Together, they force Fuller and his men to escape.
They take possession of their gold mine, but they cant see any sign of gold. Finally, they give up, and decide to go away, taking their fathers brass bed as a memento of him. The bed is inordinately heavy, and the brothers find that the brass is actually gold.