Abby McWilliams (Lori Loughlin) and her brother Loren McWilliams (Shannon Presby) are a pair of teenagers.
When their parents Mac (Tom Atkins) and Mary Beth (Jean de Baer) are killed in an accident, and it's decided that Abby and Loren will live in the small town of Glenby, Florida with their uncle Charlie (Eddie Jones) and aunt Fay (Lucy Martin), who own a gas station and a small amusement park, both of which are on Charlie and Fay's property.
Loren and Abby do not have much trouble making friends at the high school in Glenby. Loren starts dating Karen (Paige Lyn Price), who is the daughter of the local sheriff (Court Miller), while Abby starts dating a guy named Mark (Eric Stoltz).
Loren feels uncomfortable when he sees a guy with blond hair harassing Abby one day at school in the cafeteria. Mark tells Loren and Abby that the blond haired guy is Eddie Dutra (James Spader), a drug-addicted teenager whose henchmen are Gideon (John Philbin), Moonie (David H. MacDonald), Gordo (Theron Montgomery), and Joe Bob (Vince Grant).
Dutra thinks Abby is very attractive, and that's why he wants to get his hands on her. Loren helps Abby keep Dutra at a distance, and Dutra does not like that at all.
Dutra and his gang start retaliating against Loren for keeping them away from Abby. Dutra's retaliations keep getting more and more vicious until Dutra forces a showdown at the amusement park by kidnapping Abby.
Charlie is severely injured by Dutra. Gordo is killed by a vicious dog, and Dutra kills the dog. Loren causes Moonie to be thrown to his death from the Ferris wheel, then Loren causes Joe Bob to be electrocuted above the bumper car ride, then Loren uses the roller coaster to decapitate Gideon.
Dutra then fires a shot at Abby, who flees to the parking lot of the gas station, where Dutra hits her with the gun. Dutra then grabs a nozzle from one of the gas pumps and lights it up to be used as a flame thrower. Loren grabs Dutra, and Loren and Dutra struggle over the nozzle. Dutra dies when Loren forces the nozzle to Dutra's face, setting Dutra on fire.
On the next day, the newspaper headline reads: Bloodbath at Funland—Five die as dope crazed vandals terrorize amusement park. Charlie survives his injuries, and the park is reopened after it is repaired. As Abby, Loren and his girlfriend, Karen, drive away in a car, Joe Bob's little brother looks on in a threatening state.