After a day of sailing, a group of hippies—Jane, Bill, Joe, and Fred—are traveling through the English countryside when their car runs out of gasoline. In the midst of a rainstorm, they find a large estate owned by Lord and Lady Alexander, who offer to refuel their car and invite them to spend the night.
Later in the evening, Jane hears music emanating from the basement, and goes to find the source. She uncovers a hidden chamber where the Alexanders are performing a black mass with multiple devil worshippers. When they realize she has infiltrated the event, they attempt to use her as a sacrifice. Bill, Joe, and Sam go to find her, and begin fighting with the cultists. In a tussle, Bill stabs Lady Alexander in the stomach, killing her. The cultists, having lost their sacrifice, go berserk and attack each other with machetes and swords.
The four run to their car and escape the castle grounds. They arrive at Bill's mother's house later in the evening, but Bill's mother, angry over a missing necklace that Jane had earlier stolen, directs them to stay in a hotel. Instead, they take motorcycles to Bill's father's country house. On the nightly news, they watch as the massacre at the Alexanders' estate is covered by local media. In the news report, a broken necklace—the one Jane had stolen—as well as a guitar left behind by Bill, is noted as evidence, and it is also stated that Lady Alexander has gone missing. The police surmise that "hippies" may have been responsible, and liken the crime scene to the Tate murders.
After falling asleep upstairs, Fred awakens and finds Bill has vanished. He searches for him and finds his corpse in a closet. Later, Fred is found with his throat slashed in the bathroom. Jane and Joe flee the home, riding into the woods on a motorcycle. The two stop in a meadow to rest, and begin to kiss. Joe looks down at Jane, and sees the flesh around her mouth turn necrotic. Terrified, he flees on the motorcycle, but crashes into a pond. Jane appears at the edge of the pond, her face pale but mouth restored; Joe begs for her help, but she watches silently as he drowns.
Later, Jane is at a mental institution, where she is questioned by psychologists and doctors. In her room, she is confronted by an apparition of Lady Alexander, who stabs her to death. The apparition then leaves the hospital and enters a taxi, asking the driver to take her to the villa. It is implied that during the attempted sacrifice, Lady Alexander's spirit had taken over Jane's body and had been vying for control of it, thus murdering the three men.