NOTE: Based on the true life story of Kuno Hoffman, "the vampire of Nuremberg."Mosquito [Werner Pochath] is deaf and dumb, thanks to a "loving" father who beat him senseless when a child. Now an adult, Mosquito works as a bookkeeper, keeps to himself, and lives alone in an apartment with black walls and his collection of dolls. Often the butt of derision from his co-workers and neighbors, he takes pleasure only in watching a young neighbor woman [Birgit Zamulo] who likes to dance under the clouds and seems to be a bit "touched". Oh, and he also likes to smash his dolls and lick catsup off his hands.One day, when smashing dolls and licking up catsup doesn't seem to satisfy him anymore, Mosquito breaks into a mortuary where he stabs the corpse of a young woman and licks her blood off his hands, whereafter he writes "Mosquito" on the wall. This appears to satisfy whatever is driving him, as he continues the practice of locating dead girls from the obituaries, stabbing them in the chest, and drinking their blood, eventually using a double-pronged straw to suck it directly instead of licking it off his hands. Occasionally he goes a bit further, like cutting off a woman's head and, in one case, plucking out a woman's eyeballs and taking them home where he keeps them in a jar. After several such mutilations, Mosquito's exploits have made it into the newspaper and all
of Nuremberg is talking about the "vampire".When Dancer, in one of her dancing sessions, falls off the roof and is killed, Hoffman can find no solace. After attending Dancer's funeral service, he stays in the cemetery in order to remove her body from the coffin for a final kiss and a last dance. When that doesn't help, he visits a mortuary where he sucks the blood from the chests of two women. When that doesn't work, he visits a whorehouse to watch two whores having sex. Even that doesn't work so, on his way home on his motor scooter, he follows a young couple as they drive out to the country. As they are making love in their car, Hoffman kills them and drinks their blood. Only then does he smile.
Unfortunately, he leaves behind his straw and passport and is finally apprehended by the police. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]