During the French and Indian War in 1757, the family of Colonel Munro, daughters Alice and Cora and son Davy come from England to visit their father who is commanding Fort William Henry in the American colonies. The French are masters of the military intelligence situation as they have their loyal Indian allies masquerading as scouts for the English and are able to interecept and kill all runners from the British outposts.
General Webb, the commander of Fort Edward where the Munros have arrived has fallen for French ruses by believing that General Montcalm's French and Indian forces are advancing from the South. General Webb's Indian Scout Magua testifies to the truth of this information convincing General Webb to send his forces South and send the Munro family to the believed safety of their father General Munro to the north at Fort William Henry. The only person who does not believe Magua is the Colonial Scout Hawkeye and his Indian companion Uncas. Hawkeye's rough ways, honesty, and vocal common sense has alienated him from the British military command.
In reality, Magua was once flogged by General Munro for being drunk and sees the chance to torture and murder the Munro children as a pinnacle of revenge. Leading the Munros accompanied by Major Duncan Heyward and a small British military escort into an Iroquois ambush, Magua is thwarted by the arrival of Hawkeye and Uncas who rescue the Major and the Munros. The Major wins Hawkeye over by declaring that he would be placing his pride over the lives of the party if he didn't give command of the evasion party to the experienced Hawkeye. The group manages to evade Magua's pursuing Indians for a brief period, but Hawkeye arranges for a better chance for escape by having Heyward and the Munros captured then rescued by Hawkeye and Uncas.
On their escape from the camp the party runs across the garrison of Fort William Henry who declare that they gave an honourable surrender of the fort to the French and were allowed to keep their arms but not their ammunition. Hawkeye suspects the Indians will massacre the party and organises a defence.