Charlie Brown decides to enter the Junior Olympics at his school after it is revealed he is not going on vacation after all. The decathlon is the only thing left open, and Charlie Brown accepts the challenge (of course after everyone else there refused to take on such a tough event before Charlie Brown showed up).
Peppermint Patty, who is the school's coordinator for the Junior Olympics, oversees Charlie's rigorous training for the event. Marcie also watches (and gives encouragement) and Snoopy works out with him (showing how in-shape he is and how out of shape Charlie is in the process). During a review of the ten events, Patty worries of whether or not he could win, and decides to enter Marcie to back him up.
On day one, Charlie is introduced to his competitors; Marcie, Freddie Fabulous from Fremont (defending Decathlon champ and smug egotist who calls Charlie Brown "Pumpkin head"), and The Masked Marvel (who is Snoopy from Ace Obedience School). He places well in the first five events, enough to place him in third after the day is over. Lucy states she is annoyed that Charlie Brown cannot be a total blockhead by his third-place ranking, as the Masked Marvel came in dead last (even after winning the final event of the first day, the 400m dash).
Day two starts off bad for Charlie. First he feels nervous due to the increased pressure, then he performs badly in the 110m high hurdles (knocking down all but one hurdle and finishing last by a mile). However, after a tough talk from Peppermint Patty, a great showing in the pole vault and first-place finishes in the discus and javelin throw catapults him into first place. Now it's all on the 1500m run to finish it all off and be the school's hero. When Charlie Brown gains the lead over Freddie Fabulous, Lucy is aghast that the world must be ending as Charlie Brown is coming in first. Unfortunately after taking the lead, Charlie Brown closes his eyes and dreams of his victory and winds up running off the track, off the school grounds...and out of contention.
It is learned afterward that their school still wins the Junior Olympics, due to Marcie winning the 1500m (and thus the decathlon) and the disqualifications of Freddie Fabulous and The Masked Marvel (for fighting on the track). Peppermint Patty consoles Charlie Brown, telling him that everybody knows he did his best. Marcie arrives and Charlie Brown congratulates her on the win. Marcie, in turn, replies, "You're a great competitor and a real gentleman. I think you're the greatest, Charles." Uncharacteristically, she then lifts her glasses and winks at Charlie Brown, who blushes.