The film opens with the narrator singing how we, the audience, remember the story of the Three Little Pigs by showing a book titled "The Three Little Pigs", and then tells the audience that they are still around, but "playing music with a modern sound" (which is upbeat jazz), while it cross-fades to a nightclub, ironically called the "House of Straw".Suddenly, the wolf appears, dancing to the music. He shakes the hands of the pigs and tells them that he's joining up with the band. He pulls out his trumpet from his coat, and begins playing out of tune, much to the dismay of the pigs. The pigs throw him out through the emergency exit. The wolf tries to barge back in, but to no avail. As a result, he vows to "huff and puff and blow the house down". He does this by blasting his trumpet, causing all the straw that surrounded the nightclub to be blown away.The pigs then travel to their next gig, the "Dew Drop Inn", also known as the house of sticks, and as usual, all goes well. The wolf, again, comes in, sits down on the stage, pulls out his trumpet and begins to play. Again, he plays out of tune, this time, to the dismay of not just the pigs, but also the patrons, who tell them to "throw the square out". In anger, and like in the original story, he blows the the place down with his trumpet, causing the sticks to collapse on the pigs and patrons. The three pigs then conjure up a plan to keep the wolf from ruining their future gigs, saying that their next place will be made of bricks.Cross-fading into the next scene, we see the "house of bricks" (built in 1776). A sign is shown on the entrance saying "No Wolves Allowed". The wolf lifts the sign up, only to be punched in the face by an unknown person's fist that was on the other side of the door. Desperate, the wolf grabs a large log, and attempts to use it as a battering ram, but unfortunately fails. He then tries to blow the place down with his trumpet numerous times until he ran out of breath (which the narrator points out that he stopped at 10:00 PM). Upon failure, he gets the idea of disguising himself.Cut to the pigs playing and the patrons dancing, the wolf is dressed in a large brown fur coat playing James P. Johnson's "The Charleston" on the ukulele, only to slide on a banana peel thrown by the piano pig through the exit, with the door closing behind him. The wolf then sneaks in, hiding in a potted plant, and then begins to play out of tune as soon as he is inside. The double bass pig launches a toilet plunger at the bell-end of the wolf's trumpet, causing him to be flown out of the building. Finally, he comes in with a large bass drum while dressed in a marching band outfit. The drummer pig throws a dart at the drum, causing it to deflate in a comedic fashion. The wolf then shows himself out, as the piano pig slams the door shut then locking it.Having the last straw, the wolf then grabs a large TNT explosive, vowing that if he can't blow it down, he'll blow it up. However, when he tries to light the fuse, the piano pig on the other side of the door blows the flame out with a straw. The wolf then moves back so that the pig cannot reach, and tries to rush back when the fuse is lit, only to blow himself "and his corny horn" up.We then see that the wolf ended up, not in Heaven, but in the "other place" (Hell), and we see the wolf inside a heated black cauldron, playing his trumpet, this time in tune. The pigs suddenly hear this, and they decide to let him join in spirit, since he learned the rule of "you gotta be hot to play real cool". As the song ends, the piano pig then flips the card in front of the piano announcing the act, with it saying "The Three Little Bops - Plus One". Iris out to "The End".