Wile E. Coyote (Carnivorous - Slobbius) lights a firework, hoping for it to explode when Road Runner (Velocitus - Incalcublii) passes over it, but it explodes instantly. Wile catches up to Road Runner and passes him, but fails to spot the end of the cliff and falls off. Wile climbs the cliff in sections and pulls himself barely up onto the end of the cliff, but Road Runner then scares him off the cliff.
Wile then plans to drop a bomb on Road Runner from a hot air balloon. However, while inflating the balloon, the balloon inflates the coyote instead; Wile floats through the air and bounces on the ground, desperately holding onto the bomb before he deflates and flies through the sky. When all the air leaves him, Wile lets go of the bomb, but falls through the sky. Wile hides to avoid the bomb, but the bomb lands near him. When the bomb starts ticking, Wile unscrews the bomb's head and removes the explosive. The bomb stops ticking, but a relieved Wile is blown up when it abruptly starts ticking again.
This time, Wile posts several white signs along Road Runner's path in an effort to get Road Runner to stop. When Road Runner obligingly munches, Wile prepares to go down in a bucket to trap him, only to struggle getting in the bucket. When Wile finally gets in, he unties the rope to lower himself, only for the rope to detach from the bucket, sending Wile falling. The bucket gets hung up on a tree branch, much to Wile's relief, but he then falls out of the bucket when relaxing. Road Runner lays down a spring, which bounces Wile (who holds a sign saying THANKS in a rare act of gratitude) directly into the first branch, where he is hung up by the spring.
Wile then plants a detour sign in the road, directing Road Runner to go down an outcropping. Road Runner stops at the very edge, and Wile follows, only for the outcropping to break up and send Wile falling to the ground. Wile's knife scrapes the skin off his back, and his fork lands in his tail, sending Wile flying upwards, where is hung up on another branch by his napkin. The tree then falls down and pounds Wile through the ground and into a waterfall. Wile is swept downstream through a network of pipes before twisting himself out of a spigot. Wile then stares at Road Runner, still standing on the floating piece of rock, much to Wile's confusion. He pulls out a sign that says, I WOULDN'T MIND, EXCEPT THAT HE DEFIES THE LAW OF GRAVITY, but the Road Runner holds a sign that says, SURE, BUT I NEVER STUDIED LAW, as he speeds away.