THE DEVILS HAND Donna Trent (Ariadna Welter) is feeding ducks in the local park. Rick Turner (Robert Alda) approaches and remarks about her friends (the ducks). She says she has been waiting and that she shouldnt marry someone who is always late. He reassures her that she has been waiting years for the right man and can wait another twenty minutes. Turning away, he appears concerned. She asks whats wrong, to which he answers nothing. I didnt get any sleep last night. She suggests he see a doctor or get sleeping pills. He says it wouldnt help. He also informs her that he has quit his job. She is surprised and reminds him that he wanted the job so he could develop his own interests and provide security for their pending marriage. He asks for her patience.That night Rick is troubled in his sleep. He awakens in the dark to see the vision of a woman dancing in the clouds. The image fades and he dresses and goes out for a walk. We hear his thoughts as he confesses the same woman appears every night in his dreams, becoming more real each time and leading him to a certain location. He is drawn like a magnet to a courtyard of shops where he spies a doll in the window looking exactly like the woman.Rick shows the doll to Donna the next day, explaining it looks like the woman in his dreams. She remarks that its likely a coincidence and that they can ask who posed for it. At this moment a man inside, Francis Lamont (Neil Hamilton), takes up the doll. They enter the shop where the man calls him Mr. Turner and says he has the doll ready for him. Rick looks bewildered and Donna looks at him puzzledly. He is surprised and remarks that the man knows his name. Lamont assures him that he knows his customers well and shows them the photo Rick brought in to make the doll. Rick says there must be some mistake. Lamont goes to the back to check the order. He assures Donna that he didnt order any doll and she says its probably a misunderstanding. He protests that he doesnt sleepwalk and is not living a double life.Suddenly Donna notices another doll on a shelf that looks like her. She picks it up and thanks Rick for having it made. He confesses that he didnt have anything to do with it. Lamont returns and says the order is complete, signed by Mr. Turner. Rick asks about the doll resembling Donna and is told it was ordered by the woman in the photo. Lamont takes the Donna doll and says he knows the lady who ordered it. Rick says there must be some mistake; he didnt order the doll and has never been in the shop. Lamont tells him the doll is paid for and that he will send it to the lady, Bianca Milan (Linda Christian). Rick asks to buy the Donna doll but is told that it is not for sale. Lamont suggests a photo be brought in so that a doll may be made in Donnas image. Donna insists that the doll is her image. Lamont looks at her and says irately   No, it is NOT!   Donna is incensed and leaves.Lamont takes the Donna doll back and downstairs to a chamber where a man beats drums. Putting on a mantle, he takes a voodoo pin and stabs the doll. At this moment Donna feels a pain in her stomach and is helped to the car by Rick. He takes her to Belmont Hospital. Lamont comes back to the shop with the pierced doll and pins it to the wall on the shelf.At the hospital, the doctor (Roy Wright) comes out and tells Rick that Donna has a problem with a muscle spasm near the heart. Rick remarks that it came on suddenly. The doctor admits that the whole thing is somewhat suspicious and suggests that she is resting now, sedated, and that Rick can see her tomorrow.That night, Rick is awakened by the image of Bianca calling his name. She speaks to him and he rubs his eyes bewilderedly. Asking what she wants, he is told that she wants him. She tells him to come to her and vanishes.The next day the nurse (actress not identified) tells Donna that Rick can only stay three minutes or she will get too excited. Donna says she always gets excited when she sees Rick. The nurse agrees and admits Rick to the room. Donna tells him she feels like a steamroller ran over her. He confesses another dream with the woman talking to him. He tells Donna that he must see the woman and find out the truth. She believes him and warns him to be careful.Going back to the doll shop, Rick asks to see the name on the back of the photo of Donna. Lamont explains that the doll and picture were picked up by the owner that morning. Rick asks for the other doll and is presented with it, completely wrapped with the address on it. Reassuring him the doll is completely paid for, Lamont gives it to Rick. After Rick leaves, Lamont looks over to the shelf where the Donna doll is still pinned to the wall.Rick knocks on an apartment door and it is opened by Bianca, who calls him by name and invites him in. He gives her the doll and she opens it up, remarking how much it looks like her. She offers him a drink. He says he wants answers. She tells him there is plenty of time and he pours a drink. They sip their drinks and she mentions eating. She rings a bell and explains that her servant will prepare it. She explains that her servant lost his tongue as a sacrifice in a group that worships an ancient deity. As they take seats at the table, he asks how she knew he was coming. She tells him that she invited him, and he came. It was a matter of thought projection, she tells him. He is surprised that she was able to project her thoughts and images from her apartment to his.After dinner they take coffee on the sofa and he asks her why she chose him and such a strange manner of contact. She states simply that she wanted him and has been working to wear down his resistance. He tells her that he is going to be married. She says that she always gets what she wants and moves to kiss him. Rising, he asks more about the thought projection. She rings for the servant and asks for drinks for them. As the drinks are brought, she opens a cabinet and produces a doll of Rick. He recognizes his image and she places it on an altar. They drink their drinks and she tells him to sit and relax. She lights a candle and kneels before the doll and focuses her attention on it. Rick closes his eyes and she tells him to look and describe what he sees. He tells her of a vision of her in clouds surrounded by storms. She tells him to turn and look at her. He says he knows what she is: a sheena; a witch. She tells him she belongs to a cult that worships Gamba and that she can control her destiny. He confesses that he is strongly drawn to her and that she is definitely a witch. They embrace and she tells him he must swear an oath to Gamba that night. Taking the doll of him, they leave to go to a ceremony at midnight.The servant drives them to the doll shop where Bianca hands the dolls to Lamont, telling him that Mr. Turner wants to join them. He says he will perform the ceremony after the sacrifice. They go back to the ceremonial room, where a number of people are seated on pillows. The voodoo drums play ominously. A woman rises and begins dancing to the drumbeat. Bianca explains that it is the full moon and a human sacrifice must be made. She points out a wheel above with apparent blades hanging down. One of the blades is real and the others not. The wheel is spun and lowered on the sacrifice. If the blade pierces the heart, Gamba has chosen. If not, the sacrifice is spared. She tells him all must pass a loyalty test this way and that she has been proven loyal.The dancing ends and Lamont comes out in ceremonial robes carrying the two dolls. He places them on a high shelf alongside dolls representing others in the room. One fat man, Lindell (actor not identified), is seen nervously operating a hidden camera inside his coat. Lamont announces that Gamba the great devil god calls for a sacrifice. They bring in a girl who appears to be in a trance and lay her on the altar. Lamont gets a striped pole and begins spinning the wheel containing the knives. The wheel stops spinning and Lamont operates a lever which lowers it close to the girl. Suddenly it drops into position. The girl has been spared; Gamba has protected her. Those present praise Gamba.The girl is released and leaves. Bianca tells Rick that it is their turn. Lamont tells them to kneel and asks Bianca if Rick has been informed of their beliefs. She assures him that he has. Rick is asked if he pledges himself to serve Gamba, if he will obey Gamba no matter what and if he will keep the cult in secret from others. All of which he answers that he will. Bianca is charged with being his sponsor; she agrees. He is pronounced a member by Lamont and they leave. Lindell nervously marks something inside his coat.Back at the apartment, Rick relaxes on the sofa. Bianca comes in and tells him that although he does not fully believe, she will bring him in and that he cannot ever escape from her. He confesses that he wants it that way.Next they are seen at the horse races, where they win eight races in a row. Rick visits a broker, who has been successfully investing according to tips from Rick. Rick credits Bianca as his advisor.Returning at night to his own apartment building, he finds a note on his mailbox from Donna, telling him how much she misses him and wants him to visit her. Smiling, he wads up the note.Lamont is seen having a drink with Bianca. He tells her that Rick has successfully completed all tests so far and that her relationship with him has lasted longer than previous relationships. She professes her allegiance to Lamont and he urges her to keep the affair brief. Next, Rick will have the loyalty test.As he goes out to his car that night, he is approached by a blonde member of the cult (Jeanne Carmen as Jeannie Carman) who appears to be drunk but wants to talk in private. They go up to his apartment where she wants a drink but he offers her coffee. She confesses she wishes she were free from the cult and wants her life back. Rick tells her she is drunk and doesnt know what she is saying. Finally he urges her to leave.At Biancas apartment, Rick fixes drinks for them and confesses that a female cultist may be unfaithful. Bianca tells him that he must report her or they both will be punished.Waiting at the doll shop, Lamont comes out with the blonde cultist and informs Rick that he has passed the loyalty test. He asks Bianca to come to the back with him, leaving Rick alone in the shop. He begins looking at the dolls and finds the Donna doll with the voodoo pin through it. Before he can do anything, Lamont and Bianca return. He steps back where he was and they suspect nothing.That night in his bed, he thinks about Donna and looks at her picture. The next morning he visits her in her hospital room. He tells her that at midnight she will be free of her illness and to trust him. Donna tells him that the nurse is no longer on her case but a new nurse is now. As Rick leaves, the new nurse watches him carefully.At Biancas place she and Lamont discuss whether Rick can be trusted any further. The new nurse Mary (Gere Craft) reported that Rick came to visit Donna. Bianca recommends that Donna be eliminated.Rick goes to the shop to remove the pin, but hesitates. Meanwhile, Lamont suggests that they wait a few days and see what happens. Bianca agrees and Lamont leaves, saying he has to return to the shop for something.Back at the shop, Rick removes the pin from the doll at midnight and tries to stick it back into the wall underneath the dolls arm. The doll sags down, so Rick uses some tape to hold it up. As he is leaving, he sees and hears Lamont coming. He goes to the ceremonial room to hide. Lamont enters the shop and hears noises coming from the ceremonial chamber. Rick operates the foot levers that raise the spinning wheel. Pulling the curtains down, he finds a doorway and enters in. Lamont comes into the ceremony room and looks around. On the floor he finds a note written to the newspaper editor, promising photos and names of the cult.At the hospital Donna receives a call from Rick. She tells him the pain is gone and she feels fine, other than being a little weak. Mary enters with a tray of coffee and sets it down. Donna asks Rick if she will see him again. Her reaction shows the answer is no. She hangs up and the nurse asks how she feels. Donna lies down and the nurse goes out to call Bianca.When Rick sees Bianca at her apartment, they have a drink and talk. She informs him that his association with Donna could be misconstrued. He assures her that it is over between him and Donna. Bianca questions that and Rick moves in to kiss her. He confesses that his love and desire for her is like an addiction that he never wants to lose.That night at the ceremony, Lamont announces that there is a traitor among them and that Gamba will have retribution at midnight. They are told to return at 12:30. Lindell looks nervous.Driving in his car afterward, Lindell looks cautiously behind him. Rick looks at the clock at Biancas and notices it is five minutes before midnight. At the ceremonial chamber Lamont selects the doll of Lindell and sticks it with a pin in the head. He places it in an incense burner. At the same time, Lindell cries out in pain and his car goes over a cliff, crashing and burning.As the cult members return to their places, Lindells sponsor (Bruno VeSota as Bruno Ve-Sota) looks nervously at the spot where Lindell sat earlier. Lamont announces that Gamba has taken revenge and the traitor Lindell eliminated. He was planning an exposé of the cult.As cult members leave, Lamont detains Lindells sponsor and speaks to him from the podium. The sponsor insists that he knew nothing of Lindells plan and that he also had been lied to by Lindell. Lamont shows him the paper that was found. The sponsor nervously looks it over and apologizes again. Lamont asks him to retrieve his doll from the shelf. The terrified sponsor backs away and falls over pillows.Lamont answers the phone in the doll shop. It is Mary, who is calling for Bianca. She informs Bianca that Donna has been released and that Rick has just come to pick her up.Bianca picks up the Donna doll and sees that the pin was removed. She shows it to Lamont, who asks what she wants to do. Bianca tells him she has her own plans for the doll.Rick and Donna get into Biancas car and he tells her that she must leave town and go far away for her own safety and his sake. He is unable to explain why. She reluctantly agrees and they drive off.Bianca has the doll at her apartment and sets it up. She begins calling Donnas name as Donna is packing to leave. Hearing the voice, Donna sits and responds.At the ceremony, a man and woman do a ritual dance. Rick approaches Bianca, asking where she has been for several hours. She tells him she has been busy. They take their places as Lamont calls for a sacrifice to be made. They bring in the subject. Rick notices that it is Donna. He comes forward and claims he has done nothing disloyal. He denies removing the pin from her doll. Lamont says Gamba will decide if he is guilty or not and that he must spin the wheel. Very reluctantly he spins the wheel. Lamont operates the pedal to lower it.Rick blames Bianca and denounces the cult as murderers. He grabs Donna from the altar and puts her to one side of the room. A struggle breaks out between Rick and Lamont. The censer falls, igniting the curtains. Rick forces Lamont onto the altar, where the wheel falls, killing him. The fire spreads as cultists try to escape. Bianca picks up the Donna doll and leaves.Rick and Donna get into the car and she asks how she got there. He tells her that what matters now is that they are both safe and free. They drive away as the building burns.Bianca is seen in a vision as if responding to what Rick has said. She says   thats what he thinks.