In the opening sequence, Bambino (Bud Spencer) is walking through the desert carrying his saddle and finds four escaped convicts, from whom he steals their beans and horses. This scene is followed by the opening credits and the title song, after which we see Trinity (Terence Hill) on his travois. He too comes across the convicts frying more beans, and also tricks them.
Trinity then continues to his family home and finds Bambino having a bath. Trinity smells so bad that he is told to bathe, too, before everyone starts lunch. When the four convicts show up and try to rob the family, the mother sneaks around from the back and ushers them out with a shotgun after they are relieved of their money.
That night, the father pretends to be dying and makes Trinity and Bambino promise to work together. As Bambino is teaching Trinity how to be a successful horse thief, they see a wagon with two tired mules and decide to rob the passengers. But all they find is a family with a sick baby (nicknamed "Little Windy" by Bambino) and a young girl who falls for Trinity. The family isn't moving because of a broken wheel, so Bambino lifts the wagon and Trinity changes the wheel, before giving the family some of the money they have stolen. As the film progresses they keep encountering the family, with much the same gags.
When Trinity and Bambino arrive in town, they head to the local saloon. Inside, Trinity, Bambino, and two cowboys play cards with a professional sharper named Wild Card Hendriks. Thanks to his superior skills, Trinity deals everybody a potentially winning hand. However, his cards are better, so he wins and is accused of being a cheat. When they square off, Trinity displays his extreme speed by drawing his gun a number of times, each time holstering it and then slapping Hendricks in the face, all before Wild Card can react. As he leaves, Wild Card tries to shoot Trinity from behind but is foiled once again.
Trinity and Bambino buy new suits with their winnings. Running into the family they helped earlier, they are overheard pretending to them to be federal agents, with Bambino as "The Captain" and Trinity "The Lieutenant". Then they go into a smart restaurant for dinner, consuming huge quantities of food with a notable lack of table manners. When they leave, they meet a man who, believing the story about their being federal agents, gives them four thousand dollars to "keep their eyes shut." The two brothers now travel to a town called San José where they start a bar brawl with some convicts they recognise. These they take to the local sheriff for the bounty. The sheriff informs Trinity and Bambino that everyone in San José works for the man who paid them the four thousand dollars and that they should avoid the local mission especially. Once there, Bambino pretends that he has come to confess, considerably shocking the prior.
That night they find that the man who paid them off also uses the mission for gun-running and to store stolen loot. The brothers trick the local monks into helping them beat the outlaws, while actually planning to take the loot for themselves. After a long fight, which the brothers and the monks naturally win, a group of Rangers shows up and arrests the outlaws. One of them thinks he recognizes Bambino as a wanted horse thief; to allay his suspicions, Trinity repeats that they are federal agents and gives the Ranger the stolen loot.
As they ride away squabbling, they see the pioneering family stuck fording the river (as they did once before) and the film ends with Trinity riding down to help them.