The story starts one late one weekday evening at Zipper's Clown Palace topless strip club. The beautiful Christina (Maria Ford) is on stage and devoted fan Carey (Lance August), a socially backwards, stuttering, but good natured young man sits at her feet.Outside a bus drops off Neil (Rick Dean), a man with sunglasses and a white cane. He taps his way across the street and into Zipper's bar where he orders a drink. The burley bar tender (R.A. Mihailoff) tells him he's already served last call, but patron, Frankie (George Russo) talks the barman into letting him buy the blind man a drink. They both regret this as Neil turns out to be an obnoxious loudmouth.Outside two corrupt plainclothes cops, Roland (George Tovar) and Joey (Patric Zimmerman) are cruising the streets. Roland is interested in two things: First, getting information on a recent robbery and second, finding a stash of cocaine he can seize to feed his habit. They plan to visit Zipper's later as they know the barman is a dealer, but first they drop by informant Acid Arnie's (M.C. McCurdy) apartment. After grabbing Arnie's meager supply of cocaine and pot they threaten him until he snitches on the robbers.Back at Zipper's, the barman is so annoyed at Neil he declares the bar closed and tells everybody to leave. At this point Neil pulls off the glasses and reveals he is not blind. He also produces a pistol and orders the barman to lock the front door so nobody can go in or out. He then forces the patrons and staff to sit at the bar while he takes the stage. The group consists of the barman, Frankie, Frankie's friend Buzz (J.R. Kuykendall), Christina, Carey and strippers Sandra (Nikki Fritz) and Kitten (Ann-Marie Holman). The butch Sandra and the pretty, passive Kitten are lesbian lovers.Neil is no normal robber and he pistol whips Buzz into unconsciousness for asking why he doesn't just take the money and leave. He then turns his attention to a terrified Carey, telling him that he will shoot him if he cannot answer a trivia question by the count of five. Kristen is able to answer before the deadline and this gives Neil another idea. Seeing Carey's devotion to Christina, he orders them to go behind the stage curtain. Christina will have six minutes to arouse Carey and be engaged in intercourse with him, or he will shoot her.At this outrage the barman confronts Neil and Neil shoots him in the gut.Behind the curtain, at first Carey is too scared to get aroused, but Christina is able to calm him down and promises him she will take him to Vegas if they both live through this. As a bit of comic relief Carey murmurs that he doesn't know if he is ready for such a commitment.Neil allows Sandra to check on the dying barman and give him some water. As she leans close the barman whispers that there is a shotgun behind the bar. From that point on Sandra tries to find an excuse to go behind the bar and get the gun, but Neil seems too suspicious of her to let her go.After six minutes Neil checks behind the curtain and is surprised to find Christina and Carey making love. Leaving them to continue, he now turns his attention on Kitten, ordering her to give him a lap dance up on stage. Kitten tells him she is too scared, but he threatens to kill her if she does not comply. Her eyes are wide with terror she gives him a dance with her fear somehow increasing its eroticism. Not satisfied with letting her strip off just her top, he makes her continue until she is only wearing stocking and high heels and only then allows her to return to Sandra's sheltering arms.Meanwhile the cops, done with Arnie, pull up in front of Zipper's. They can see that something is wrong as it is well past closing time and the lights are on and there are cars in the parking lot. The cops know something bad is going down and decide to pull behind the bar into an alley so they can smoke some pot and decide if they want to get involved.Neil orders Carey and Christina out from behind the curtain so he can tell the group a story. Before going out front Christina whispers to Carey that she has a gun in her purse and if she can get to it, Carey should be ready to distract Neil so she can shoot him.Neil tells the story of a man with bad chemicals in his brain that makes him do bad things. It is soon clear that he is talking about himself. The man, he says, is considering suicide when he sees a beautiful woman. We soon realize he is talking about Christina. The man decides instead of suicide he will stalk the girl getting pleasure out of watching her without her realizing it. He asks Christina if she wonders why the guy she went out on a date with never called her back. The answer is given to us in a flashback when we see Neil torture and murder him.In the alley the cops have finally decided to intervene by slipping in the back door. Joey picks the lock while Roland stands behind him with a shotgun.Christina, clearly nervous at the thought of Neil stalking her, begs him to let her get her cigarettes from her purse. He does and as she fumbles for a lighter, Carey starts demanding to go to the restroom. This distracts Neil and Christina pulls out a pistol and fires at him. Her shot is low, though, and hits the chair Neil is sitting on and he is uninjured. He returns fire and Christina, hit, drops the gun and stumbles back into a corner. Kitten tries to crawl over the bar to safety, but is shot by Neil. Frankie runs toward the back door and is also shot. One of the bullets goes stray, through the back door, and hits cop Joey in the head.Sandra jumps behind the bar and grabs the shotgun. She stands up and takes a shot at Neil, but misses. Outside an enraged Roland blows the door open with his shotgun. Seeing Sandra behind the bar with a weapon, he blasts her. Neil fires at Roland, but Buzz, who has been faking being unconscious on the floor, chooses the wrong moment to make a run for it and gets hit in the crossfire.Roland chases Neil down the stage and behind the curtains blasting away with the shotgun. Thinking Neil is dead he approaches the center of the curtain and is killed when Neil comes out from the far end. Carey retrieves the gun from the floor and confronts Neil. Neil, knowing that Carey has never fired a gun in his life laughs at him, but Carey, enraged by what Neil has done to Christina, empties the gun into Neil's chest. As Neil lies dying, Carey rushes to embrace Christina, who is propped up in the corner bleeding. She opens her eyes and asks if he has a cigarette and we realize she is still alive.In the final scene we see Christina being wheeled out to an ambulance while Carey follows. They are apparently the only survivors of the evening's slaughter. As they get in the ambulance Carey tells Christina he is rethinking his stand on commitment.