The novel's events occupy eighteen books.
The book opens with the narrator stating that the purpose of the novel will be to explore "human nature."
The kindly and wealthy Squire Allworthy and his sister Bridget are introduced in their wealthy estate in Somerset. Allworthy returns from London after an extended business trip and finds an abandoned baby sleeping in his bed. He summons his housekeeper, Mrs Deborah Wilkins, to take care of the child. After searching the nearby village, Mrs Wilkins is told about a young woman called Jenny Jones, servant of a schoolmaster and his wife, as the most likely person to have committed the deed. Jenny is brought before them and admits being the baby's mother but refuses to reveal the father's identity. Mr Allworthy mercifully removes Jenny to a place where her reputation will be unknown. Furthermore, he promises his sister to raise the boy, whom he names Thomas, in his household.
Two brothers, Dr Blifil and Captain Blifil, regularly visit the Allworthy estate. The doctor introduces the captain to Bridget in hopes of marrying into Allworthy's wealth. The couple soon marry. After the marriage, Captain Blifil begins to show a coldness to his brother, who eventually feels obliged to leave the house for London where he soon dies "of a broken heart". Captain Blifil and his wife start to grow cool towards one another, and the former is found dead from apoplexy one evening after taking his customary evening stroll prior to dinner. By then he has fathered a boy, who grows up with the bastard Tom. Captain Blifil's son, known as Master Blifil, is a miserable and jealous boy who conspires against Tom. 
Tom grows into a vigorous and lusty, yet honest and kind-hearted, youth. Tom tends to be closer friends with the servants and gamekeepers. He is close friends with Black George, who is the gamekeeper. His first love is Molly, gamekeeper Black George's second daughter and a local beauty. She throws herself at Tom; he gets her pregnant and then feels obliged to offer her his protection. After some time, however, Tom finds out that Molly is somewhat promiscuous. He then falls in love with a neighbouring squire's lovely daughter, Sophia Western. Tom and Sophia confess their love for each other after Tom breaks his arm rescuing Sophia. Tom's status as a bastard causes Sophia's father and Allworthy to oppose their love; this criticism of class friction in society acted as a biting social commentary. The inclusion of prostitution and sexual promiscuity in the plot was also original for its time, and the foundation for criticism of the book's "lowness".
Sophia's father, Squire Western, is intent on making Sophia marry the hypocritical Master Blifil, but she refuses, and tries to escape from her father's influence. Tom, on the other hand, is expelled from Allworthy's estate for his many misdemeanours. Allworthy had become ill and was convinced he was dying. The servants of his estate and family members gather around his bed as he disposes his wealth. He gives a favorable amount of his wealth to Tom Jones which displeases Blifil. Tom doesn't care about what he has been given, his only concern is Allworth's health. Allworthy's health improves and we learn that he will live. Tom Jones is so excited that he begins to get drunk and gets into a fight with Blifil. Sophia wants to conceal her love for Tom so she gives a majority of her attention to Blifil when the three of them are together. This leads to Sophia's aunt, Mrs. Western, believing that Sophia and Blifil are in love. Mr. Western wants Sophia to marry Blifil in order to gain property from the Allworthy estate. Blifil learns Sophia's true affection for Tom Jones and is angry. Blifil tells Allworthy that the day he almost died, Tom was out drinking and singing and celebrating his death. This is what lead him to be banished. He starts his adventures across Britain, eventually ending up in London. Along his journey, he meets up with a barber we learn is Partridge who was actually banished from town because he was thought to be the father of Tom Jones. He becomes Tom's faithful companion in hopes of gaining his name back. During their journey they end up at an Inn where a lady and her maid arrive. An angry man arrives and the chambermaid points him in the direction she thinks he needs to go. He bust in on Mrs. Waters, a women Tom rescued along his journey, and Tom Jones in bed together. The man was looking for Mrs. Fitzpatrick and leaves. Sophia and her maid arrive at the same Inn where Partridge unknowingly reveals the relationship between Tom and Mrs. Waters. Sophia leaves, with Mrs. Fitzpatrick who is her cousin, and heads for London. They arrive at the home of Lady Bellaston and are being followed by Tom and Partridge. Eventually, Tom is able to tell Sophia that his true love is for her and no one else. Tom ends up getting into a duel with Mr. Fitzpatrick which leads to his imprisonment.
Eventually the secret of Tom's birth is revealed, after a short scare that Mrs Waters (who is really Jenny Jones) is his birth mother, and that he has committed incest. Tom's real mother is Bridget, who conceived him after an affair with a schoolmaster — hence he is the true nephew of Squire Allworthy himself. After finding out about Tom's half-brother Master Blifil's intrigues, Allworthy decides to bestow the majority of his inheritance to Tom. Tom and Sophia Western marry, after this revelation of his true parentage, as Squire Western no longer harbours any misgivings over Tom marrying his daughter. Sophia bears Tom a son and a daughter, and the couple live on happily with the blessings of Squire Western and Squire Allworthy.