Kamila, a widowed mother, works as the housekeeper for Mustafa, a foreign poet, painter, and political activist being held under house arrest. Mustafa is guarded by the soldier Halim, who has a secret crush on Kamila. Kamila's daughter, Almitra, has stopped talking due to her father's death, and has become a troublemaker who frequently steals from local merchants. Almitra has seagulls for her only friends; she even seems able to talk to them by making birdlike noises. Halim's pompous Sergeant arrives to tell Mustafa that he is now free, but he must board a ship to his home country by day's end. The Sergeant escorts Mustafa to the ship, and Mustafa spends the time conversing with Kamila, Almitra and Halim, as well as with the townspeople, who regard him as a hero. Mustafa's conversations, ranging in topics from freedom to marriage to parenthood to eating, are animated by the movie's many directors in their own unique styles.
Once everyone reaches the ship, the army imprisons Mustafa in a fortress instead of allowing him to board. The commanding officer labels Mustafa's writings as seditious, and demands that he retract his statements. Mustafa refuses, asserting that his writings are not seditious. Thus, the commanding officer sentences Mustafa to death by firing squad the next morning unless he disavows his writings. That evening, Kamila, Almitra and Halim try to help Mustafa escape. Almitra sees Mustafa through his prison cell window, and talks for the first time since her father's death. Mustafa refuses to try to escape, giving his final animated poem, this time on the topic of death. But he asks his friends to return to the house and rescue all his paintings and writings before the army can destroy them. The next day, Mustafa again refuses to renounce his writings as he is being led to the firing squad in the fortress's open yard. A large flock of seagulls surround him as he is being placed in position. Over at the house, Kamila and Almitra save all of Mustafa's writings and drawings right before the army arrives, and they hide in the woods. Then suddenly they hear loud gunfire and see the flock of seagulls fly out of the fortress. But Almitra insists that Mustafa is all right, as she sees the flock circle around the now departing ship, and imagines Mustafa being aboard that ship.