A series of morality stories told by a social welfare case worker, centering around the budding sexuality of young teens, similar in vein to the Schoolgirl Report series:(1) 13-year-old Gisela Hoffmeister (Christine von Stratowa) is home alone and enjoying a bath when family friend and architect Werner/Walter Heimbach drops by for a meeting with Gisela's mother, who is out shopping. Werner is lending a helping hand in the bathroom when Gisela's mother returns home. What should she do?(2) Bratty little Kalli /Charlie constantly interrupts his foxy older sister Anita (Judith Fritsch) while she's trying have a "meeting" behind locked doors with "the insurance man". To get rid of Kalli for a few hours, Anita and her companion both attempt to buy him off. But the lad's no fool...(3) 14-year-old Klaus/Hans is caught shoplifting and forced by Mrs. Jäger (Elke Deuringer), the manager, to sign a confession. She then uses the confession to blackmail young Klaus into having sex with her. One day she demands he do it in her own bed while her husband's away on a job -- until he comes home unannounced, and the quick-witted Mrs. Jager accuses Klaus of being a peeping Tom.(4) Two young children, Hansi and Rosi, watch their parents, Fritz and Elise (Marie Luise Lusewitz), having sex through the bedroom keyhole. When the two rascals relate what they saw to their parents over breakfast, Fritz flips out and starts slapping the little tykes around.(5) Carlo the horndog corners cute co-worker Anni Berger in the stockroom and starts groping her breasts. The impending seduction of the 15 year-old is derailed by the arrival of Mrs. Kronhuber, a crafty old woman who helps Anni get revenge on the creepy little Italian.(6) 11 year-old Birgit Seifarth's divorced mother (Marlene Rahn) wants desperately to hold on to her latest boyfriend, Walter, who has become bored with her. When she discovers that her loathsome friend enjoys beating Birgit, she finds every opportunity for him to do so. One day she comes home to find Walter sexually abusing Birgit, but after weighing her options, decides to offer her daughter to Walter in exchange for getting a little something, herself. [This disturbing vignette is cut from the English language version.](7) Edgar, a spoiled rich teen, lusts after his sexy new maid, Erna/Annette (Marisa Feldy). He eventually forces her to having sex with him -- after which she falls madly in love with the wretched boy.(8) Two naked girls (Sonja Embriz - sandy hair) hide in the woods, waiting to see if their friend Topsy (Ulrike Butz) will show up with her sex partner, since they have a bet as to whether she'll take his virginity. Topsy arrives with the nerdy 15 year-old "ball of fire", and they start going at it -- unaware that they're on top of an anthill.(9) To realize her "healthy adolescent dreams", pigtailed milkmaid Resi/Rosie Huber (Sonja Jeannine) sells herself for 20 Marks a pop, blows a shopkeeper for a dress, and eventually accumulates a sufficient nest egg to leave the farm. When the police raid an elderly playboy's estate and find the 13 year-old Resi among the other naked young things, it's off to the reformatory for our slutty little milkmaid.(10) The film concludes with the social welfare worker telling us how Gisela's mother handled the bathtub situation: Mom tiptoes back outside and rings the doorbell to give Gisela and the pedophile Werner time to clean up and "avoid a scene." She then treats her daughter as a young adult, guiding her toward a successful resolution of the awkward business.Note: Some vignettes use different character names in the German and English versions. I've tried to reflect those here.