The series finale of Dynasty, broadcast in May 1989, had left oil tycoon Blake Carrington shot by a corrupt policeman, his beloved wife Krystle in an off-screen coma and his conniving ex-wife Alexis Colby plunging from a balcony. The Reunion picks up two years later as Blake — having survived the shooting but then convicted for the death of his attacker — is pardoned and released from prison.
Krystle has awakened from her coma during the two-year gap and returns to Denver where she is reunited with an overjoyed Blake. Steven Carrington is now an environmental lobbyist in Washington, D.C. and in a relationship with Bart Fallmont (recast with Cameron Watson), who has returned to Denver. Blake's daughter Fallon has split with husband Jeff Colby, while raising their two children and Blake and Krystle's daughter, Krystina. Fallon has also reunited with Miles Colby, with whom she had a former relationship some years earlier. Meanwhile, Krystle's niece Sammy Jo, having lost her fortune, is once again modeling in New York. On the catwalk for "Fashion Fury" she soon comes in contact with the company's newest investor: her ex-mother-in-law Alexis, who survived the fall from the balcony two years earlier after falling on Dex Dexter (whose fate was never made definitively clear, but simply stated he "was not as lucky").
It soon becomes clear that Blake's downfall had been orchestrated by The Consortium, a mysterious organization which now controls Denver-Carrington. The most insidious part of their plan comes to fruition as Krystle, brainwashed before her return, is compelled to make an attempt on Blake's life. Her love for Blake allows her to resist and overcome the programming, but The Consortium kidnaps Jeff. Miles, Blake's eldest son Adam and Jeff's ex-wife Kirby Anders rescue him. Despite Adam's involvement in The Consortium's takeover, he and Blake reconcile their differences. Adam and Kirby also rekindle their past romance and Blake regains control of Denver-Carrington with Adam's help.
The Carringtons reunite at the mansion as secret Consortium leader Jeremy Van Dorn, who is romantically involved with a clueless Alexis, attempts to both gain control of her company ColbyCo and kill her. He drags her to the garage and tries to asphyxiate her with carbon monoxide fumes from one of the cars parked inside, but she is rescued by Adam, as Van Dorn escapes (he is taken away by the police who are actually members of the Consortium in disguise). Fallon realizes she still loves Jeff and leaves Miles for him yet again. Blake and Krystle hold a family celebration at the mansion to which even Alexis is invited. After Blake makes a toast to his family, the miniseries ends as he and Krystle dance together, happy at last.