Shortly after the launch of Sputnik in October 1957, a meteorite crashes into the coast near the fictional town of Rockwell, Maine.
Nine-year old Hogarth Hughes follows a trail leading to a nearby power station where he finds the Iron Giant. The robot gets electrocuted as he tries to eat the transmission lines of the electrical substation. Hogarth turns off the station, saving him, and flees. The next day, Hogarth finds and befriends Giant, finding him to be docile and curious. When Giant eats the railroad tracks in the path of an oncoming train, Hogarth tries to have him repair it but the train collides with him and derails. Hogarth ushers Giant away from the scene and into his family barn. He discovers that the damaged parts are drawn to him and he self-repairs. During dinner, they are visited by government agent Kent Mansley who is investigating reports involving the Giant. Kent becomes suspicious of Hogarth after his widowed mother, Annie Hughes, says he rants about giant robots. Kent leaves, stating that they'll see each other again "real soon". After dinner, Hogarth reads comics to the Giant who takes a liking to Superman. Hogarth takes the Giant to a junkyard. They are discovered by beatnik artist, Dean McCoppi, who Hogarth shows is docile and convinces him to let the Giant stay there for the night.
The following morning, Hogarth discovers that Kent has rented a room in their house to stay close but Hogarth manages to ditch him. Kent discovers Hogarth's camera with a picture of the robot on it and interrogates Hogarth until he reveals the robots location. Kent calls in the army led by General Shannon Rogard. He tries to hold Hogarth until they arrive but Hogarth escapes. The following morning, they go to the junkyard where Hogarth and Dean decorated the Giant to make it appear like an art piece. Infuriated, Rogard berates Kent and fires him. Later, Hogarth is playing with the Giant using a toy gun. The Giant involuntarily fires at him but Dean rescues Hogarth before he strikes him. Dean orders the Giant away for Hogarth's safety, but Hogarth gives chase. Dean realizes that Giant was acting in self-defense and catches up to Hogarth as they follow him.
The Giant saves two boys from falling to their deaths and accidentally reveals himself to the townspeople (including Annie) as Hogarth and Dean arrive. Kent, Rogard and the army see Giant and attack. The Giant flees with Hogarth and takes flight but they are shot down and crash violently into the forest. Giant awakens after the crash and finds Hogarth's unconscious body, believing him to be dead. The army arrives and opens fire. Overcome with despair and anger, the robot reveals an array of powerful energy-based weapons and fires back with overwhelming force. Rogard orders battleships to open fire which draws the Giant toward the coast. Kent convinces Rogard to lure the robot away and launch a nuclear missile from the USS Nautilus, as conventional weapons are completely ineffective. Dean and Annie revive Hogarth and he arrives at Giant's side in time to stop him from destroying the battleships. The Giant returns to his docile state and goes back to town with Hogarth while Dean explains the situation to the military. Rogard is ready to stand down but Kent grabs his communicator and orders the launch. Rogard reminds Kent that the missile is locked onto the robot's current position and that they will all be killed in the blast. Kent tries to escape but he is stopped. Hogarth explains what is about to happen to the Giant. The robot says farewell to Hogarth and flies off to intercept the missile, saying "I'm Superman" just before collision. The missile explodes harmlessly in the atmosphere, but the Giant is seemingly killed instantly in the explosion. Everyone is relieved to be alive but Hogarth is saddened at the loss of his friend.
Months later, the town has constructed a statue of the robot in its memory. Hogarth receives a package from General Rogard - a bolt from the Giant's head. That night, Hogarth sees the bolt trying to move and lets it roll free. On the Langjökull Glacier in Iceland, the head of the robot awakens as his pieces are moving toward him.