A Vampire of 200 years named Louis (Brad Pitt) follows a reporter named Daniel (Christian Slater) hoping to prey on him. Instead, Louis agrees to an interview with a man that does not believe in vampires. After Louis convinces his new friend of his powers, he tells his story beginning with how he was transformed by Lestat (Tom Cruise), a vampire. Louis describes his transformation and what vampires are truly vulnerable too. He is shown learning the ways of vampires, 200 years ago(in the time of African slavery in America), while he drinks his first tastes of blood. Louis becomes angry with Lestat for cursing him to "this Hell". Next Louis gives in to the thirst as the slaves start to revolt and he kills a female slave for her blood. They kill again, and then Louis finds the girl Claudia, who has just been orphaned. Though he has great compassion for her, he bit and turned her. Lestat congratulates him and welcomes Claudia to the realm of the dark. Soon, Lestat kills for her to drink and Claudia has turned. A Vampire family emerges.
The two adults treat her as each of their daughter. She learns to play the piano, play with dolls, and kill people. Then on her 30th vampire birthday, Lestat gives her another doll. Then, he discovers a female corps in her pile of old dolls. They argue and she explodes about the fact that she will always be a little girl, deprived of a normal life. She attacks Lestat and then she runs away saying that she hated them both. Later, Louis finds her and they make peace. But then, filled with anger with Lestat, she goes to him and leads him to the deadly trap she has set for him. He curses her as he dies.They dump his body together and they start their new life .Then one night, they return to their loft to find Lestat, badly scarred returning for his revenge. Then Louis, using an oil lamp, burned him and their loft. Knowing that Lestat may return again, Louis takes Claudia and they run off to live on the lamb. Louis is shown talking to Daniel again, about the myths that mortals believe about vampires. Then Louis is shown in 1890 where he meets two fellow vampires, Armand (Antonio Banderas) and one of his subjects. Then, Louis and Claudia join their new "friends" for a theater production of vampires, playing humans, playing vampires. On stage Armand and his pack kill on young lady as part of the "act". Later, father and daughter join the brood of vampires in their lair. Then, after Claudia tells Louis that Armand means to kill her. She believes that she is in the way of Armand's plan. Then Armand spoke to Louis of Lestat and his death, and how turning Claudia the way they did was forbidden. Louis realized that Claudia was doomed. Though Claudia found a female that she wanted turned, to become her mother, Louis refused. Then he conceded and bit the adult woman. Just then as she was changing, Armand's large brood barged in and took Claudia and her new friend to a roofless dungeon. Louis was placed in a box for all of eternity. Then Claudia and the new vampire watch the sun rise, and they parish. When Armand learns of what was done, he frees Louis. Then, filled with rage, Louis sets the hive on fire. After the entire brood is dead, Armand and Louis leave in a carriage where they would be protected from the sun. The two men are the only vampires left from this tale, and they talk about their fellows that were just killed. When he realized that Armand regretted none of their deaths, Louis went on to live a night life around the world, by himself. Then Louis returned home and then to the creepy, abandoned plantation. Of course, Lastat was waiting for him. Though Lastat was insane, Louis left him, and told his interviewer Daniel that he does not know what ever happened to him. Louis told Daniel to pass on what he has learned, but Daniel wants to be turned. He wants to experience the life that Louis told him about. Louis grabs him and scares off Daniel, to change his mind. Then, afraid Daniel flees to his car and starts listening to the interview. Before long, Lestat attacks him in his convertible and bite the moral and drives his car away. In the closing scene, Lestat says to Daniel, who is still alive, that he is giving him the same choice that Louis was given. Death or eternal life!