Francesca Marsh (Yancy Butler) is a luxury car thief who's involved in a chase with the local California Highway police chasing her for her latest car theft. Having caused a major multi-car pileup on a local expressway, she flees from the scene on foot and latches onto journalist Jack Martin (Matt McCoy) who is on his way to cover a karaoke convention in nearby San Diego.Desiring a change of wheels, the amoral Francesca steals another car, a flashy red sportscar, not realizing that there are several counterfeit plates as well as $2.7 million in cash in the car's truck. Meanwhile, Sir Stewart (Jacob Witkin), a British crime lord, learns about the thief of his car and orders his triggerman Regy (Trevor Goddard) to team up with bad cop Lt. Diego (John Ashton) to retrieve the goods and eliminate the car thief, as well as anyone who gets too close to learning what they are after.Adept at outsmarting the pitbull Diego, Francesca tracks down Jack where she wheedles him into further cooperation by pointing out the headline potential of their predicament. When Jack is entrapped by corrupt federal agents on Stewart's payroll, Jack turns over the counterfeit plates, but the streetwise Francesca arrives where she kills the crooked officials before they can kill Jack under orders from Stewart.Now fugitives, Francesca and Jack head out on the road. They decide that the only way to get away from all this is by fleeing to the Mexican border where they will be free. As they travel on, the erstwhile Bonnie and Clyde couple outsmart the police persuing them every step of the way. But Regy and Lt. Diego finally corner the fugitive couple at a local roadside tavern where they demand the handover of the money in the trunk of their stolen car. Increasintly rattled, Regy guns down a barmaid to show Francesca and Jack that he means business.However, Francesca and Jack escape once more and they decide to lie low for a while at the apartment of Jack's mother while awaiting passports arranged by Jack's newspaper editor. But Jack's editor and his companion are murdered by the thugs who arrive to cancel their plans. Forced to flee from his mother's apartment, Jack and Francesca flee once more with the stolen cash to the San Ysitro border crossing.When Jack is wounded, Francesca helps stow them away in an ice cream truck. After hitching another ride from a nervous guy, the couple attempts to cross the border on foot. But then Regy appears in a helicopter shooting down at them, forcing Francesca to drop the loot in order to run more faster. Jack manages to use the persuing Diego as a human shield as he and Francesca shoot Regy right out of the chopper who falls to his death, while Diego is dead too from taking many bullet hits. Free, but without the money, Jack and Francesca cross the border into Mexico and are left with deciding what to do next.