The movie picks up with Mollie (Kristie Alley) and James (John Travolta) having sex and Mikey (voice of Bruce Willis) getting scared. Mollie and James tell Mikey that he's got to be potty trained. Mollie discovers she's pregnant again and James is working diligently. Mikey learns that with his little sister, Julie, on the way, he has to be a responsible big brother. When Julie is about to be born, her umbilical cord gets caught around her neck, putting her in distress. She is born through a c-section and is taken to the nursery area for observation.
When Julie and Mikey meet, she takes an immediate dislike to Mikey. Throughout the film, Mikey becomes jealous of Julie, and their parents' fights about Stuart staying there lead to Mollie kicking out James. Mikey is upset about this and tears up one of Julie's stuffed animals. James occasionally hangs out with his kids (including scamming their way into a movie theater) and has fun with them.
One day, Julie sees the head of her stuffed animal (the one that Mikey tore apart). She decides to learn to walk and leave. She manages to walk to without support and Mollie sees this and is excited calling James and Stuart. Mikey realizes one night that he hasn't been very nice to Julie. After a montage of previous clips from the first film, along with a few deleted scenes earlier, Mikey sees the error of his ways and decides to try to be nice to her.
Mollie realizes that she needs James to help her. She dresses up for him and gets back together with him. A few days later, Mikey uses the toilet and calls his parents, who are immensely proud of him. Mollie exclaims that she hasn't felt that happy about Mikey since he was born.
One night, Mollie watches the news and learns that storms are all around the area. She goes to get James before he takes off, leaving Stuart with Mikey and Julie. At some point in time, a burglar breaks in and runs when Stuart comes in with his unloaded gun. Stuart is completely oblivious to the fact that he left paper on a hot stove, causing it to catch fire. The paper falls off the stove causes a bigger fire. Mikey and Julie panic and Mikey pushes Julie out of the apartment. Then, he saves himself and Julie from the fire, while James gets the police and arrests the thief. Mollie and James ask where Mikey and Julie are. They see the smoke in the apartment and run in to get the kids, who arrived in the elevator. James runs in and gets the fire extinguisher and puts out the fire.
The next day, James, Mollie, Stuart, Rona, and Mollie's parents talk, while Mikey explains to Julie why he saved her from the fire. Eventually, they start to get along. In the post-credits scene, Julie falls down on the ground, to which she says, "Ah, oh my tush hurts."