The existence of the "Black World" - an alternate dimension populated by supernatural demons - is known to very few humans. For centuries, a pact between the Black World and the world of humans has been observed to maintain peace, and terms must be negotiated and renewed every few hundred years to continue relative harmony. A militant faction of radicals from the Black World stops at nothing to initiate chaos between the two worlds. Their chief enemies are the Black Guard, an organization designed to protect the relations of both worlds in secret.
Renzaburō Taki, a salaryman electrical goods salesman by day, and a Black Guard agent when needed, has casual sex with Kanako, a young woman who he has been meeting at a local bar for several months. Kanako reveals herself to be a doppelgänger from the Black World Radicals and attempts to kill Taki, but he resists her attempt and she escapes. The next day, Taki is assigned to protect Giuseppi Mayart, a two-hundred-year-old man with fantastic spiritual powers. Mayart is to be a signatory for the ratified peace treaty between the Human World and the Black World in Tokyo, and a major target for the Radicals. Taki is also informed that he will be working with a partner from the Black World.
While awaiting Mayart's arrival at Narita, Taki is attacked by two Radicals, but is saved by his partner - a beautiful fashion model named Makie. Taki and Makie eventually meet Mayart, who quickly reveals his perverse behaviour to them. The trio take shelter in a Hibiya hotel with spiritual barriers to protect it from Radicals. While playing chess to pass time, the hotelier explains to Taki, who is unsure of his responsibilities within the Black Guard, that he will only value his position once he knows what he is protecting. During a skirmish with a Radical, Mayart sneaks out of the hotel.
Makie and Taki find him at a soapland in the grip of a Black World woman, who has sapped his health, prompting a frantic trip to a spiritual hospital under Black Guard protection. Halfway there, Makie is taken prisoner by a tentacle to be punished for her "crimes" against the Black World by being repeatedly raped, and Taki is forced to leave her behind, but as soon as he knows Mayart is safe in the hospital, he rushes to where his partner is being held, despite Mayart’s threats that he will be thrown out of the Black Guard. Taki is led to a dilapidated building far from the hospital, where he finds Makie being gang raped. While Taki is successful in freeing Makie after eliminating a succubus and other demon agents, they are relieved of their Black Guard duties and are captured by Kanako, who attempts to kill them again. Bolts of supernatural lightning appear and kill Kanako, and Taki and Makie fall unconscious. They awaken inside a church, and have a romantic night of copulation.
A final attack by the Radicals comes against Taki and Makie, and it is partially deflected by a surprisingly healthy Mayart, who reveals he was protecting his so-called bodyguards, not the other way around as they had been led to believe. Mayart and Taki almost succeed in defeating Mr. Shadow, the leader of the Radicals, but the final blow comes from Makie, whose powers have increased tenfold due to her being impregnated by Taki. Mayart explains that the two are essential to forming a new peace treaty; Taki and Makie were selected to be the first couple from both worlds that can produce half-human, half-demon children, and their bond will be instrumental in ensuring everlasting peace between the two worlds. Although angry with Mayart due to him and Makie not being informed of the Black Guard’s plans, Taki admits that he is falling for Makie and, as per the hotelier’s advice, wants to protect her and their child. The trio leave to attend the signing ceremony. Taki remains in the Black Guard to ensure the protection of both worlds and his loved ones.