Karan (Alok Nath) is a poor mechanic who lives in the countryside with his only daughter, Suman (Bhagyashree). He decides to travel overseas in Dubai so that he can accumulate enough wealth to get his daughter married. He decides to leave his daughter with his family like friend Kishan (Rajeev Verma). Kishan lets Karan's daughter Suman stay at his house as he cannot turn down his old friend's request and Suman comes to live with his family. Suman is befriended by Kishan's son Prem (Salman Khan), who assures that a boy and a girl can be platonic friends.
Prem takes Suman to a party organised by Seema (Pervin Dastur) who is the only daughter of Kishan's business partner, Ranjeet (Ajit Vachani). Jeevan (Mohnish Behl) son of Ranjeet, humiliate Suman and Prem and accuse both for their false claim of being friends. Suman leaves in tears and distances herself from Prem. At that point, Prem and Suman both realises that they have fallen in love with each other. Kaushalya (Reema Lagoo) finds out about Prem and Suman's relationship and approve of Suman as her daughter-in-law, but Kishan is quite unhappy with the relationship asks her to get out of his house and life, as he feels that she has taken advantage of his hospitality. Karan returns from abroad and is enraged at Kishan's behaviour. Kishan accuses him of plotting to set up Prem and Suman. Karan and Kishan quarrel, and eventually Karan and Suman return to their village humiliated.
Prem refuses to accept the separation. He goes to Suman's village and begs to be allowed to marry her. Karan, angered by Kishan's accusations, says that he will allow the marriage on one condition: Prem must prove that he can support his wife by his own efforts. Prem then works as a truck driver and laborer in the nearby quarry.
At the end of the month, Prem has earned the required money. On the way to Karan's house he is ambushed by Jeevan at the head of a group of ruffians who attempt to kill him. He survives but his wages are ruined in the fight. Karan harshly dismisses Prem's efforts but Prem begs for another chance to prove himself. His stoic determination melts Karan's heart and he agrees to let Suman marry Prem. Meanwhile, Ranjeet, believing that Jeevan has successfully killed Prem, persuades Kishan that Karan has killed his son. When Kishan arrives at Karan's village, they are surprised to find Prem alive. When Prem confronts Jeevan, Ranjeet and his supporters turn on Kishan and Karan and Jeevan abducts Suman. Prem, Karan, and Kishan defeat Ranjeet's supporters and save Suman. The estrangement between Karan and Kishan comes to an end and Prem and Suman marry.