2 guys ambush and kill some hunters in the woods.Del Sr. (Dean Stockwell) gets caught by his son Del Jr. (Robert Glen Keith) having an extra-marital affair. He takes Del Jr. to a cabin in the woods to talk things out. Youngest son Campbell (Jason Behr) is already there.That night the two guys from the beginning turn up - we'll call them Bad Guy (James Remar) and Sort Of Bad Guy because I can't remember their names.The hang out for a bit making everyone uncomfortable. Finally they leave.Cambell and Del Jr. talk that night about Cam's ex boyfriend Billy, who died of AIDS, who left Cam after Cam's father caught them making out and nearly beat Billy to death.Later Del Jr. goes outside and finds Cam. Since Billy is dead, Del Jr. wants to know who Cam was waiting at the cabin for.Bad Guy and Sort Of Bad Guy step out of the shadows. Turns out Bad Guy robbed a bank and stashed the loot nearby but got put in prison. He broke out because he learned that the mill, where he hid the money is about to be torn down.The two take the family hostage, even though Cam is sort of helping them. (After Billy disappeared, Cam wrote to all Billy's friends hoping to track Billy down - this is how he came to meet Bad Guy.) When Bad Guy learned Cam had a cabin nearby, he seduced Cam.A female cop comes by to tell the family about the escaped prisoners. Bad Guy holds Cam and Del Jr. hostage and forces Del Sr. to tell the cop everything is fine. She leaves.Cam and Sort Of Bad Guy end up in the boathouse. Sort Of Bad Guy tells Cam that he wrote the letters, since Bad Guy is actually straight. He kisses Cam to prove it.Somehow a fight breaks out, and Sort Of Bad Guy is killed by Bad Guy.Cam gets a gun and forces Bad guy with him to the middle of the lake. He shoots the bottom of the boat and swims to shore. Bad Guy is stuck because he can't swim.Morning comes. Police woman turns up and takes Cam into custody for helping the bad guys.Del Jr. tells her it wasn't for the money.She asks, 'What else is there?'Later Cam is in prison being visited by his brother, when his father turns up too.