In the home of the Newton family, George, Alice, their three children, and Beethoven are all well adjusted to living together. Beethoven sneaks out and meets Missy, a female St. Bernard whose owners are attempting to settle a divorce. Regina, who is seeking $50,000 in the settlement, has retained full custody of Missy and only plans to transfer her to Brillo, her soon-to-be ex-husband, once the divorce is finalized.
With Beethoven's help, Missy escapes from Regina's condominium, and the two fall in love. Ted and Emily become aware of Beethoven constantly sneaking out of the house and follow him, where they discover he and Missy had four puppies in the basement of the building. At the same time, the janitor of the building, Gus, also finds them and informs Regina. She reclaims Missy and plans to get rid of the puppies, even if it means killing them, but Gus points out that pedigree St. Bernards are worth a lot of money and suggests that Regina sell them.
Thinking Regina plans to drown the puppies, Ted and Emily manage to sneak them past Regina and take them home. They keep them in the basement so George, who they know would not want to deal with, won't find them. Realizing they took the puppies, Regina plans revenge. Ryce, Ted, and Emily take it upon themselves to feed and care for them, even getting up in the middle of the night and sneaking out of school to do so.
Eventually, George and Alice discover the puppies; George, angry at first, reluctantly agrees to keep them until they are mature. At this point, they are presumably 8–10 weeks old. The children name them Chubby, Dolly, Tchaikovsky, and Moe, and George re-experiences the ordeals of dealing with growing dogs.
Facing significant financial difficulty, the family is offered a free stay in a lakefront house at the mountains owned by one of George's business associates. Beethoven and the puppies, somewhat calmed down, go along on the vacation. Ryce attends a party with friends where she is exposed to vices of teen culture such as binge drinking and getting locked in her former boyfriend Taylor Devereaux's bedroom against her will. Beethoven destroys the house's patio deck, removing her from potential danger.
Regina and her new boyfriend, Floyd, are staying in a location unknown to Brillo, coincidentally near the Newtons' vacation residence. They go to a county fair with the dogs, and the children persuade George to enter a burger eating contest with Beethoven, which they win. By happenstance, Regina and Floyd were there and had left Missy behind in their car.
Missy escapes from the car with Beethoven's help while Regina sneaks behind the children and snatches the puppies from them. Beethoven and Missy run into the mountains, followed by Regina and Floyd. The family follows, eventually catching up. Floyd threatens to drop the puppies in the river below and George says the situation does not have to get ugly. Floyd pokes George in the stomach with a stick, but Beethoven charges into it, ramming it into Floyd's crotch. He loses his balance, Regina grabs his hand, and they fall over the cliff into a pool of mud, which breaks, thus they are swept away in the river.
Five months later, Brillo visits the family with Missy, revealing that the judge in the divorce had granted him full custody of her and denied Regina's claim. The puppies, almost grown up by then, run downstairs to see Missy.