The special begins with Snoopy, as the world-famous Coach, getting his football team, The Birds, ready. It consists entirely of Woodstock and his tiny friends. The announcer says, this game will decide the Eastern Champ for the "AFL" (Animal Football League). They are playing the team "The Cats" a ferocious group of cats. The Birds crush The Cats, 38–0, making them the Eastern champs. The team celebrates by pouring "Chirpade" on the coach (Chirpade is a parody of Gatorade).
Then, Lucy asks Charlie Brown to kick a football. Charlie Brown refuses to do it. Lucy then asks him "Are you gonna go through life not trusting anyone? That's no way to live." Charlie Brown decides, she's right, and tries to kick the ball, until Peppermint Patty comes, with Marcie, Franklin, and Linus, and tells Charlie Brown and Lucy, there will be a punt pass and kick contest, and first prize wins a new bicycle, and a trip to the Super Bowl, and they should all enter. While Lucy is looking at the poster for it, Charlie Brown realizes now is his chance to kick the football, and runs up to kick it, but Lucy (as usual) pulls it away, and the round-headed boy lands on his back as a result.
While Charlie Brown and Linus are practicing for the contest, they notice a very pretty girl, who catches Linus's attention. They both walk over to her, and introduce themselves to her. The girl says her name is Melody-Melody, and has been watching them. They flirt with her, and take her out for hot fudge sundaes. They then try to impress her, and try to tell her how they'll be entering the punt-and-pass contest. Melody says she will be rooting for them at the contest.
Then, The Birds play a football game against The Dogs to figure out which team will be going to the Super Bowl. The Birds crush The Dogs, 58–0, and another drink of Chirpade is poured onto the coach.
Then at the punt-and-pass contest, Charlie Brown and Linus see Melody watching them, and they argue who Melody came to watch. The announcer announces every player, and every player gets a better score than the next one, except for Marcie who doesn't want to kick the football (because the football didn't do anything to deserve being kicked).
On Charlie Brown's turn, he scores more points than anyone so far, and Peppermint Patty, says, "Hey I think that wins it for Chuck." But then, Linus beats Charlie Brown's score. Linus gets so excited because he thinks he won. But the announcer announces the last contestant, Miss Melody Melody! Charlie Brown and Linus are confused, since they thought Melody came to watch them play, not enter the contest herself.
Melody beats Linus's score. Linus gets upset. He admits to Charlie Brown that he was in love with her. Melody wins the new bicycle and the tickets to the Super Bowl, leaving Charlie Brown and Linus in shock.
Then in the AFL World Championship, The Birds take on The Bison. The announcer admits he doubts The Birds have a chance against The Bison, a team from Buffalo, New York (and thus a parody of the Buffalo Bills). As the game begins, Lucy comes onto the field, and tells Snoopy he is a horrible coach, and his team will get crushed. But once again, The Birds crush the other team, 62–0 (again parodying Bills assistant coach Chuck Dickerson's disparaging the Washington Redskins prior to Super Bowl XXVI). The Birds are the World Champions! The Birds celebrate this time by pouring Chirpade on Lucy.
Charlie Brown and Linus are at the wall. Linus says that he is so upset that the girl of his dreams beat him in the contest. He says he will not trust anyone ever again. Charlie Brown tells him - "Your sister says we can't go through life doubting everyone. We have to learn to trust each other". Lucy then comes to them holding a football, to which Charlie Brown says - "I can't stand it".