Virendra "Viren" Pratap Singh (Anil Kapoor) travels to Rajasthan with his governess, affectionately called Dai Jaa (Waheeda Rehman). He meets the beautiful Pallavi (Sridevi) and falls in love with her. However, she is older than he is, though this does not bother Viren. During a property dispute and a court case, Pallavi's father dies of a heart attack. She is shattered and goes into isolation. At the wake, Viren goes to console her, when she runs past him—towards Siddhharth, the man she loves. Viren is heartbroken but, to fulfill Pallavi's father's dying wish, he arranges the wedding between Siddhharth and Pallavi. Allowing Pallavi to live her life happily, Viren leaves for London.
One year into the marriage, Siddhharth and Pallavi are killed in an accident. She was pregnant at the time and gave birth to a daughter. The girl is named Pooja and is raised by Dai Jaa. Viren has a childhood friend, Prem (Anupam Kher), who knows that Viren's heart still pines for Pallavi. Over the course of time, and with much persuasion, slowly Viren hops back to reality by engaging himself in work in London. There, a colleague named Anita (Dippy Sagoo) falls for him. She knows about Viren's love for Pallavi and constantly tries to gain his attention.
Viren visits Rajasthan from time to time, for Pallavi's death anniversary, and buys gifts for the young Pooja. He never meets her, remembering that she was born on the day Pallavi died. He never spends any time with her, which makes Pooja sad. A few years later, Viren returns from London and meets the grown up Pooja for the first time. He is shocked to see that she looks exactly like her mother.
Pooja and Dai Jaa come to London for vacation, and there Anita discovers that Pooja is the image of Pallavi. This upsets her as she is afraid that Viren will eventually fall for Pooja. Pooja develops feelings for Viren whom she lovingly calls "Kuwarji". Prem also likes Pooja and understands that Pooja loves Viren. Though he likes the alliance, he is sceptical since Viren is living in the past.
Later, Anita realises that Viren is over Pallavi and has fallen for Pooja. There are scenes when Pooja and her coming face-to-face over the topic of Viren. She finally confronts Pooja with the utmost respectful way of saying "He's mine." Eventually, she insults Pooja as a kid infatuated by Viren and asks what relation Pooja is to Viren that she acts authoritatively over him. Pooja retorts by saying that if she is not related to Viren, Anita is not related to him either. This frustrates Anita leading her to lambaste Viren about having feelings for a younger woman.
Pooja finds a sketch (which Viren has made of her mother) and misunderstands that it is a sketch of her. She dresses in old-fashioned clothes; when he comes home, she asks him to put "sindoor" on her since he loves her. Furious, he reveals to her that he had loved her mother and not her. Pooja is heartbroken and returns to India with Dai Jaa. Viren decides to marry Anita since he feels she has been waiting for him for a long time. Pooja says that she will marry on the condition that Viren must marry before her. Pooja lies and tells Viren that she is already married. However, Pooja never marries for her love for Viren was too great. Viren understands that she is lying and lies to her: He sends her a marriage invitation to make her believe that he is now married.
The resolution she took shows a heartbroken Pooja narrating a folk tale to an audience in a village show. After the show, Viren approaches a confused and wary Pooja. Viren reveals that he realised, after she left London, she had lied. He tells her that he is not married either. He says that he loves Pooja and not her mother. She runs into his arms and they are together at last.