Dev Narayan (Alok Nath) lives with his widowed daughter Laxmi (Aruna Irani) and her children Radha and Prashant. Dev also looks after two orphaned children, Gopal and Nita. Laxmi believes that Dev is taking more care of Gopal and Nita, so she leaves the house with her children. Laxmi soon spots an orphaned boy on the streets and takes him in. Radha forms a sisterly bond with him and names him Suraj. Suraj has a particular passion for singing.
Years pass and Suraj (Salman Khan) is now a famous and popular singer. Radha (Madhuri Dixit) is particularly fond of him – Suraj is grateful to Radha for contributing to his success. Meanwhile, Gopal (Shah Rukh Khan) has become a wealthy business tycoon. When Laxmi is killed in an accident, Radha and Prashant (Atul Agnihotri) are taken to live in Gopal’s house. Also living with them is Nita (Suman Ranganathan). Gopal asks Radha to marry him and she agrees. Before their wedding, Gopal meets Suraj where he asks Gopal to watch over Radha (as Suraj loves her like a sister). On their wedding night, Gopal asks Radha who she loves most in the world. She answers her mother and Prashant. Gopal is hurt that she did not mention him. As time goes on, Gopal starts to disapprove of two things. First, he does not like the fact that he and Radha are supporting Prashant financially and second, he does not like the fact that Radha is always on the phone with Suraj. After a misunderstanding, Gopal loses his temper with Prashant and throws him out of the house.
Gopal soon suspects that Suraj and Radha are secretly seeing one another and consequently throws her out of his house. Radha goes to live with her relatives, where Prashant is staying. Everybody thinks that Radha has simply moved out for a few days. However, when Gopal sends Radha a divorce note, Suraj realizes the situation. He and Prashant tell Radha they wish to speak to Gopal, but Radha does not want them to do so. Suraj secretly holds a meeting with Gopal. Gopal arrives and angrily confronts Suraj. Eventually, Gopal pulls out a loaded gun and asks Suraj to shoot him. After an argument, Gopal leaves. Suraj now believes that he is the reason for Radha’s divorce and feels extremely guilty. He is determined to set things right. Radha has realised that Gopal was angry about her sibling relationship with Suraj. Radha and Suraj agree never to meet again.
Suraj explains the situation to his girlfriend Suman (Aishwarya Rai Bachchan). Suman talks to Gopal and explains where he went wrong. Gopal now realises that he misunderstood Radha and Suraj’s sibling relationship for adultery. Just as Radha is about to commit suicide, Gopal arrives and stops her. They reconcile. They visit Suraj at his show. Gopal and Suraj apologise to one another and things end well.