Conker's Bad Fur Day follows the story of Conker the Squirrel, a red squirrel who embarks on a quest simply to return home to his girlfriend, Berri, after a night of binge drinking with his friends. Meanwhile, the Panther King, ruler of the land that Conker is lost in, finds that his throne's side table is missing one of its legs and orders his paraplegic weasel servant, Professor Von Kriplespac, to solve the problem. Kriplespac suggests the use of a red squirrel as the fourth leg for his table, and therefore the Panther King sends his minions to search for one and capture it. As Conker searches for his way home, he finds himself embroiled in a series of increasingly absurd and often dangerous situations, including having to recover a bee hive from some enormous wasps, fighting a Terminator-like robot in a barn, confronting a giant opera-singing pile of feces, being turned into a bat by a vampire, and even getting drafted into a war between grey squirrels and a Nazi-like group of teddy bears known as the "Tediz," which Conker ultimately destroys. During his quest to return home, Conker finds wads of cash scattered throughout the land and becomes sidetracked from his goal.
In the final chapter of the game, Conker and Berri are enlisted by Don Weaso, head of the Weasel Mafia, to rob a bank. After entering the vault, they find that the bank scene was an elaborate trap set by the King and Don Weaso to capture Conker. In the ensuing confrontation, Berri steps in to handle the confrontation for Conker, but is gunned down by Weaso under orders by the Panther King. Afterwards, he calls over Professor Von Kriplespac when he begins having trouble breathing, and Von Kriplespac takes Conker aside to watch as a large Xenomorph suddenly bursts out of the Panther King's chest, killing him instantly. Von Kriplespac explains that the alien, whom he had named Heinrich, is one of his creations and that he had planned to use this opportunity to kill the King and escape captivity. Kriplespac then reveals that they are all actually inside a spaceship, which he activates and takes into low orbit. From there, he instructs Heinrich to attack and kill Conker as revenge for destroying the Tediz, which were also his creations. Conker pulls a switch that opens an air lock, pulling Von Kriplespac and the corpses of Berri and the Panther King into space. After Conker briefly battles Heinrich with the aid of a robotic suit, Heinrich takes one last lunge at him, when suddenly the entire game freezes. Conker expresses disbelief that the developers of the game apparently did not beta test the game properly, and breaks the fourth wall to ask some software engineers to assist him in his current situation. The programmers give Conker a Katana and teleport him to the Panther King's throne room, where he decapitates Heinrich. As a result, he is crowned the new King of the land.
As characters from the previous chapters of the game gather around to congratulate him, Conker realizes that he should have brought Berri back to life when he was negotiating with programmers. He calls them out to bring her back to life, only to realize that they have left already. Conker then gives a closing monologue, in which he discusses appreciating what one already has instead of always wanting more, stating that "the grass is always greener, and you don't really know what it is you have until it's gone." The credits roll, and afterwards Conker is seen back at the same pub he was seen in at the start of the game, drowning his sorrows in Scotch whisky. He drunkenly exits the bar as it begins to storm outside, and leaves in the direction opposite the one he took previously.