In the basement of a remote sanatorium, a bald man, referred to as "Subject 47", is awakened by an unidentified man over a loudspeaker. Following the man's instructions, the Subject completes an obstacle course, undergoes firearms training, and practices various assassination techniques. He then ambushes and kills a guard, using his uniform to escape. The man watches him through the CCTV surveillance, with a satisfied laugh.
A year later, the Subject resurfaces as a hitman for the International Contract Agency (ICA), under the designation "Agent 47". He is briefed by his handler, Diana Burnwood, who sends him to Hong Kong to kill triad leader Lee Hong. He kills Hong's negotiator during a peace summit with a rival gang, frames him for a retaliatory car bombing, and assassinates the police chief protecting him, stripping Hong of his allies. He then infiltrates Hong's restaurant and assassinates him. For his next assignment, 47 travels to Colombia and kills cocaine trafficker Pablo Belisario Ochoa in a staged drug raid. His third target is Austrian mercenary Franz Fuchs, who has been hired to detonate a dirty bomb at an international conference in Budapest. 47 kills him at a hotel and recovers the bomb. His final contract takes him to Rotterdam, where he finds gunrunner Arkadij "Boris" Jegorov trying to sell weapons, including a nuclear warhead, to an extremist group. After confirming Jegorov's death, 47 finds a letter addressed to him, similar to the other three targets. He learns from Diana that all four were once part of a French Foreign Legion unit serving in Vietnam, and that they've been discussing something involving an "experimental human". The letters also mention a fifth man, Professor Ort-Meyer.
Diana then informs him that all four contracts were ordered by the same man in violation of Agency rules, and that her superiors have authorized an additional mission. 47 is to kill Odon Kovacs, a doctor at a sanatorium in Satu Mare, Romania, which turns out to be the one from which 47 escaped. Ort-Meyer is revealed to be the client, as well as the man who oversaw 47's orientation. Romanian special forces raid the building while 47 kills Kovacs, who he recognizes as Ort-Meyer's assistant.
47 then learns the truth behind his existence. He is the result of a cloning experiment which combined the genetic material of each of his four previous targets, as well as Ort-Meyer, with the goal of creating a flawless human being. Ort-Meyer orchestrated 47's escape from the asylum in order to test his performance in the outside world and ordered his associates' deaths because they wanted to use 47 for their own purposes.
With the help of CIA Agent Carlton Smith, who he rescued earlier during his time in Hong Kong, 47 discovers a sophisticated lab beneath the hospital. In response, Ort-Meyer reveals "Subject 48", a perfect replica of 47 who is both mindless and loyal. A squad of 48's are sent to hunt down 47, who manages to kill them using his superior training and experience.
Posing as a 48, 47 tricks Ort-Meyer into granting him access to his office and shoots him. As Ort-Meyer lies bleeding on the floor, he regrets that he wasn't able to recognize "his own son" and accepts his death at the hands of 47, who subsequently breaks his neck.