The story is centered around a Malayali Syrian Christian-Nasrani ("Nazarene") family. Throughout the film, there are references to the Biblical book Song of Songs. However the film story doesn't follow the same line and differs in many ways. It also has additional meanings added to make it a different story. In Song of Songs, King Solomon tries to coax a slave girl to become his consort. But the slave girl loves a shepherd. The script goes through her dreams and also shows affection that she have to the shepherd. It also shows her attempts to free from guards for returning back to the countryside. At the end, King Solomon having failed to obtain love from the slave girl, allows her to go free and meet her goatherd
In this movie, Solomon is the hero and is shown as one who comes to home at untimely times but still having friendly chat, enquiries & sharing of gifts with family members. He is shown to have special affection to the elder child of the neighboring family. He acknowledges that she is seen doing some errand every time. He protests against the discrimination shown to her by her step father (caretaker). He is ready to make her comfortable and shows his way of life (the song, Akashamake Kanimalar). He was able to convince everyone about his marriage to this girl. He sees her not as a friend nor as someone who requested his help but as an equal partner described by saying that she would be the supervisor of the next season's harvest. But her step father strongly opposes this relationship and brings up her past. Having failed to get her in a legal way, he leaves his own home but to come back a second time. He clearly expresses that in the dialogue "Nee vicharichu njan thiruchu varikayellannu" (You thought that I wouldn't come again). In his second coming, he is ready to punish the evil doers and also take his followers with him who may or may not have a great past. He also absolves her of any issue and had expected her to come out of her house when he had called out her name. That she was reluctant because of her past was dramatically spoken as "Njan vicharichu" (I thought), meaning she concluded that she was forgotten because of her past. The movie ends in a positive note of his family members accepting the marriage