Three Interpol agents meet at a cave where several corpses have been uncovered. While the other agents go for backup, Steven Bauers investigates the cavern, finding a journal under one of the bodies. Bauers skims through the journal, which tells the story of Nikos Karamanlis, beginning with him lost at sea with his daughter and pregnant wife.
The film then shows a couple, Mary and Stuart, camping on a beach, where they are murdered by Nikos. At a train station, Mary and Stuart's friends (Vincent, Marc, Caroll, Rita and Georg) head to a vacation home in Borgo San Lorenzo, where they expect to rendezvous Mary, Stuart and Caroll's husband Stan (who is preoccupied with work). The quintet reach the outskirts of Borgo San Lorenzo, where their RV breaks down. Georg, Rita and Marc go ahead (finding the village full of bodies and abandoned except for an elusive woman in black) while Vincent stays with Caroll, who had twisted her ankle. Nikos kills Vincent, abducts Caroll, moves the RV, and disposes of two nearby campers, Hank and Allan.
Georg, Rita and Marc take shelter in the vacation home, where they find Mary's blind sister, Auriet, hiding in the basement. The next day, the group reach the Karamanlis estate, where Nikos's sister Irena (the woman in black) commits suicide by leaping out a window. Inside the house, Georg finds more bodies and Nikos's journal, which he reads as Marc wanders off, running into Stan. They search for Caroll and Vincent, but Marc falls behind and is impaled on a stake by Nikos. Stan finds Caroll in the cave, and they are confronted by Nikos, who flashes back to accidentally killing his wife (during an argument over whether they should eat their dead daughter) while lost at sea. With his wife dead, Nikos ate her and their daughter to survive. After recollecting, Nikos impales Stan through the head with a machete, and cuts out and eats Caroll's unborn child.
Realizing Marc is gone, Georg, Rita and Auriet look for him, with Auriet being killed by Nikos when she becomes separated from the others. After hours of wandering, Georg and Rita are ambushed by Nikos, who rips Rita's head off. Georg shoots Nikos several times, prompting Nikos to reach into the wounds, rip some of his own innards out, and gnaw on them. Despite the severity of his injuries, Nikos continues to attack Georg and tries to drown him in a pool, but becomes distracted when he hears his wife's voice. Georg gains the upper hand, and beheads Nikos with a shovel, at Nikos's own insistence.
In the present, Bauers ponders how the journal got into the cave, and how it could be so thorough. As he exits the cave, Bauers finds what appears to be Georg's cell phone, and has his head shot off by an unseen assailant.