A dark secret which was securely kept hidden after all these years, connects the six friends Altagracia, Juaca, Ricarda, Marina, Chichita and Laura. During the day of the wedding of Altagracia to a man she will marry for money named Julian, a man tries to rape Laura in the basement of the wine distilleries. Her friends accidentally kills him in the impulse of anger. The girls realize too late what they had done. They are shocked to see Padre Sebastian witness their crime. He asks them to report what happened to the police, but they reject the idea. Sebastian departs. Then the friends agreed to hide the corpse inside the wall, each of them leaving the basement in search for the priest, fearing, that he will tell the police. But when Altagracia found him, he was already dead inside the confession box of the church and with that she was incarcerated for that crime.
They all betrayed her, and no one in 20 years ever visited her in prison, no one helped her in her sacrifice about the crime they committed. She could not kill the priest because she loved him. But the people condemned her, especially Marcos, who gave her name - wife of Judas to boost his career as a reporter. Desiring to take vengeance upon Marcos, she played his affections and made him love her. And today, she and Marcos will leave the world together. The years, carried out in the prison, changed her. She thought over the plan of vengeance to each of them. Gloria reproaches her in the murder of innocent people. Altagracia looks at her daughter, her face softened. In an affectionate voice she attempts to explain to the girl, why she did it. She lowers the pistol, which was directed to all those people present, and was about to acknowledge that Gloria is her daughter. Juaca shouts, warning her against this. At this exact moment Marcos rushes to Altagracia, attempting to take away the pistol. Shots were heard, and one of the bullets hit Altagracia. Juaca quickly runs to her mortally injured friend. Marcos cries, he requests forgiveness and tells her not to leave him. But Altagracia dies, her last words about that of Gloria, she requests Juaca to care for the girl. Marcos holds Altagracia's hands. And only Gloria can see, that there, on the threshold of the church, is Padre Sebastian, his hands extended, as if calling on to Altagracia, whom he loves, and in her entire life, loves only him. Gloria tells the crowd that Altagracia is finally reunited with Padre Sebastian.