Young Raj Malhotra (Akshay Kumar) lives with his elder brother, Rohit, his sister-in-law, Kiran, and his niece. After an accident fractures his leg, he is unable to walk for some time. Due to psychological reasons, he cannot walk even after the fracture heals. When the Malhotras move to Dehra Dun, Raj befriends their neighbour, young tomboy Kajal (Lara Dutta), as both share a common passion for aeroplanes. Kajal encourages Raj to walk, and he succeeds. Years later the two continue to be fast friends, and everyone expects them to marry soon. Raj secretly loves Kajal and is waiting for the right time to propose to her. However, Kajal sees him only as her best friend. Raj is recruited by the Indian Air Force and goes for training for a year and a half. After his training is over, he rushes to Kajal to propose to her, only to find out that she has given her heart to multimillionaire businessmen, Karan Singhania (Aman Verma). Raj tells Kajal that Karan is the best life partner for her, and does not reveal his true feelings. Kajal and Karan get married and during the reception party, Kajal comes to know of Raj's feeling for her. Hurt by the fact that she did not see his feelings for her despite being Raj's best friend, Kajal asks him to move on with his life as she is now a married woman. Thereafter the Malhotras move to Nainital, and Raj relocates to Cape Town, South Africa for training.
During a visit to a club, Raj meets the vivacious and fun-loving Jiya (Priyanka Chopra). Jiya falls in love with Raj due to his clean personality, but Raj is unable to forget Kajal. After completing his training, Raj goes back to India where he finds that Jiya has already arrived at his home and is living as a paying guest with his family. Jiya makes several attempts to impress Raj, however he still doesn't fall for her. During Karwa-Chauth, Jiya performs the rituals that a wife typically does for a husband but Raj becomes angry and asks Jiya to leave. Jiya leaves the home. Raj's family reveals that they have always loved Jiya and wanted Raj to marry her as Jiya has already told them everything about her and Raj's meeting in South Africa. Finally, Raj decides to marry Jiya and move on with his life.
While visiting Jiya's family, Raj learns that Kajal is Jiya's sister-in-law. It is revealed that Kajal is now a widow after Karan's death in a plane crash, in which Kajal survived. Kajal thinks that she is responsible for Karan's death, as she had asked him for a ride in bad weather. After Karan's death, Kajal loses her mental balance and ends up in a hospital due to attempting suicide. Raj helps Kajal recover from the depression and enables her to come face to face with life again. Jiya notices their increasing closeness and suggests to her father that Kajal be married off. At Raj and Jiya's engagement, Kajal comes to know that her family has arranged her for engagement as well. Unhappy with the news, Raj asks Kajal not to allow herself to be married off against her will. Angrily, Jiya states that Raj and Kajal will never be able to forget their past and love for each other, regardless of the fact that Raj is supposed to be marrying Jiya. An irate Raj places the wedding sindoor on Kajal's head, indicating he has now married Kajal and no one has the right to question their relationship. Emotionally, Jiya reveals that she wanted Raj and Kajal to accept their feelings and love for each other in front of the world. The film ends with Jiya participating in Raj and Kajal's marriage.