The night before Halloween, a gay couple are making out in a car when a bare-chested killer in a devil mask appears and decapitates them with a sickle.
Halloween, finds Eddie at his job as a police technician talking with his police officer sister. He distributes flyers about the murders and dresses in his father's police uniform for a Halloween costume. While distributing the flyers he meets Jake in a tattoo shop.
Eddie meets with his roommates, Chaz, Joey and Tobey, and they head for the West Hollywood Halloween Carnival. They visit the murder scene, the devil-masked killer appears and they taunt him because they think he's cruising them.
At the Carnival, Eddie spots Jake going and his group goes in as well. Joey sees Jared, who he's had a crush on for weeks, and offers his phone number but is dismissed. Joey goes to the restroom with Chaz. Chaz consoles him, then goes to wait for him outside. Chaz takes ecstasy and leaves when he sees a good looking guy. Jared catches up with Joey in the restroom and apologizes. The killer emerges from a stall and decapitates Joey, taking his head as a trophy.
Chaz goes into another club and the killer catches up with him on the dance floor. Chaz becomes hazy and doesn't realize that the killer is slashing his torso. Then he removes his head while the crowd dances on.
Tobey, drunk and angry that no one's hitting on him while he's in his Halloween drag, spots the killer, who's still carrying Joey and Chaz's heads in trick or treat bags. Tobey pursues the killer, who also dismisses him. When Tobey partially removes his drag, the killer returns and collects his head.
Eddie and Jake arrive back at the Meat Locker, but it's been closed following the discovery of Joey's body. Jake hops a fence to retrieve his motorcycle. Eddie goes after him but Jake's circled around and is back outside. The killer appears behind Eddie and swings his sickle, but misses. Eddie locks himself in a small enclosure and the tip of the killer's blade scrapes Eddie's eye. Jake arrives with a cop and the killer takes off.
Eddie and Jake give their statements at police headquarters and Jake learns that Eddie's eye is artificial. They go back to Eddie's place and start having sex. Jake handcuffs Eddie to his bed and goes in search of condoms. As he's returning, the killer stabs him and leaves him for dead. Eddie hears the struggle and calls out. As the killer approaches and Eddie struggles with the cuffs, Jake hits the killer from behind with a baseball bat. Eddie slips a hand out of the cuffs, tends to Jake's wound and heads off to call an ambulance, but the killer disables the phone. Eddie runs to the kitchen. He finds a knife but also finds the heads of Joey, Chaz and Tobey in a closet. Eddie evades the killer and retreats to his bedroom. As the killer chops at the door, Eddie retrieves his father's gun and some bullets. He gets Jake out onto the fire escape and loads the gun. The killer attacks Eddie yet again, this time sucking Eddie's artificial eye out of his head and knocking him over a railing. With Eddie dangling from the fire escape, the killer returns to Jake. Eddie retrieves the gun and fires, first hitting Jake and then hitting the killer square in the forehead.
Jake is packed off to the hospital and Eddie promises to be there when he wakes up. Eddie's sister gloats over the fallen killer, but Eddie realizes that he's still alive. In the final moment, the killer opens his eyes and bares his teeth, disclosing that he still has Eddie's artificial eye clenched in his jaws.