NOTE: Sequel to Embrace the Darkness 2 (2002).Jennifer [Brooke Larele] isn't happy with the way Jack is trying to control her life
so she kicks him out into the sunlight. While Jack burns up, Jennifer
notices that her own skin isn't reacting to the sun. When news of Jack's
"spontaneous combustion" reaches the newspapers, reporter Sean Flynt [Glen Meadows]
becomes interested. So does vampire Victor Chamberlain [Ty Winston]. But Jennifer is
more interested in finding out why she didn't react to the sun, so she
reads up on vampires in the local bookstore. She learns that she is a
"pure" vampire (a mortal who was "pure" at the time of turning can become
a "pure" vampire with superpowers and the ability to become mortal again
if she falls in love with a mortal who also falls in love with her) and
that her powers will be at their greatest during the next solar eclipse
which, coincidentally, happens in four days.Just then, Sean enters the bookstore, the owner decides to go to bed,
and Sean and Jennifer have sex on a couch. Sean is certain that he could
fall in love with a girl like Jennifer. Jennifer refrains from biting him
and, instead, returns to her motel room where she finds Victor waiting for
her. Victor has figured out that Jennifer is a pure vampire and plans to
take Jennifer's power for himself during the eclipse by consuming her
blood and eating her heart.Meanwhile, Sean has grown interested in Victor Chamberlain, even
though his editor has warned him to back off from any investigation, so
Sean asks coworker Anna [Vanessa Lynch] to crash Victor's party. Victor discovers that
Anna is from the press and kills her. When Anna's body shows up, drained
of blood, Sean goes after Victor. Sean manages to expose Victor to the
sun's rays, but Anna saves Victor before too much damage is done. As
Victor recuperates, Jennifer reads his copy of the Opus Vampiris and
figures out that Victor intends to kill her for her powers.
Now Jennifer has a dilemma. Does she kill Victor and assume her
position as the ruler of vampires or do Jennifer and Sean fall in love and
return Jennifer's humanity?