The creators admit that one of the film's central plot points, about a cult operating as a postal service and corporate monopoly, is influenced and adapted from Thomas Pynchon's novel The Crying of Lot 49.
It begins in Meguro City, Tokyo, Cat Earth, a world of corporations and commercialism, where a giant mechanical Colonel Sanders wanders the streets with an axe embedded in its head, loudly advertising the restaurant. Tamala, bored with the city, leaves her home against the wishes of her human mother and flies away in a personal spaceship bound for her birthplace, Orion. Her ship is shot down by the Mysterious Postcat, and lands on the outskirts of Hate City on the Planet Q, a city populated by a contentious mix of cats and dogs. There she meets a male cat, Michelangelo, who becomes her boyfriend. While visiting a museum, Tamala discovers a mural detailing the sacrificial rituals of the ancient Minerva cult religion and the ruins of a statue of a female cat named Tatla. Later, the couple is pursued by Kentauros, a sadistic dog dressed as a motorcycle cop. Kentauros attacks and eats Tamala while Michelangelo abandons her and cowers nearby.
The film then switches focus to a future presentation given on Cat Earth by Professor Nominos, presumably an elderly Michelangelo Nominos, on the secret history of CATTY & Co. He reveals that the company is an offshoot of the Minerva religion, and that Tamala first appeared in the companies advertising in 1869 and has reappeared sporadically over the next 150 years as their mascot on packaging, print, and filmed advertisements. The presentation is interrupted by an attack, presumably by Minerva/Catty & Co. and the room is burned.
Professor Nominos appears to die in the fire but returns in an undead form, floating down Hate City's river in the film's present time. He approaches the present Michelangelo and while his body falls apart he tells him of Tamala's identity as a recurring reincarnation of Tatla whose recurring ritual sacrifice serves the goals and gives power to The Minerva Cult and its corporate and possibly imperial ambitions. As Hate City dissolves into widespread violence between dogs and cats (including the death of Kentauros) Tamala spontaneously revives under a park bench (much to the seated Michelangelo's surprise) and continues without him on her voyage to Orion, accompanied now by the mouse Penelope, a former sex slave of Kentauros. As she leaves we see through product branding, advertising, newspapers, and street conversation that Hate City is now taken over completely by CATTY & Co.