=== Setting ===
The game is set on a fictional planet incorporating fantasy elements, which consists of small and not very technically advanced settlements, surrounded by varying environments and abandoned ruins. One major hub is Sandover Village, home of the two protagonists; Jak, a silent 15-year-old boy and his best friend Daxter, a loudmouth who is transformed at the beginning of the game into a fictional hybrid of an otter and a weasel, called an ottsel.
"Eco" is a type of energy which dominates the world and was created by an ancient race of beings known only as "Precursors", implied by Samos Hagai at the beginning to be the masters of the universe and creators of all life on the planet. The two boys live with Samos, the Sage of Green Eco, and father of Keira, who is implied to be Jak's love interest. She builds the flying Zoomer vehicle that Jak and Daxter use multiple times throughout their adventure.
The primary enemies of the game consist of beasts known as "Lurkers" led by the antagonists Sage Gol Acheron (voiced by Dee Snider) and his sister Maia, who have been turned evil by the effects of the Dark Eco they studied. Their goal is to open a giant silo full of Dark Eco and use it to shape the universe to their liking. Other characters are the Blue, Red, and Yellow Sages, all of whom are masters of the Eco they take their name from.
=== Story ===
Against Samos's warnings, Jak and Daxter make their way to the forbidden Misty Island. There, they see two unknown figures ordering the Lurkers to gather Dark Eco. The duo, worried by what they are seeing, prepare to leave, but are soon discovered by a Lurker guard. Jak manages to kill it in an explosion, but Daxter ends up falling into a pool of Dark Eco. He emerges transformed into an ottsel (a hybrid of an otter and a weasel), but is otherwise unharmed. Returning to their home of Sandover Village, they seek help from Samos. Samos explains that only Gol Acheron, the Dark Sage, can reverse the transformation.
As Gol lives in the north, the boys look for a means of crossing the deadly Fire Canyon. Samos's daughter Keira, a skilled engineer, offers to let them use her Zoomer (essentially a hoverbike) in exchange for enough Power Cells to operate it. After collecting enough cells (and defeating a mutated plant cutting off the village's power supply) they make their way through Fire Canyon to the home of the Blue Sage. To their horror, the neighboring village has been destroyed by a massive Lurker known as Klaww, and the Blue Sage has vanished. With the path forward blocked by Klaww, the boys look for more cells, exploring an abandoned Precursor city filled with Lurkers searching for salvageable technology. Using the collected cells, Keira clears the path, allowing Jak and Daxter to defeat Klaww and make their way into the ancient volcano where the Red Sage dwells.
With the Red Sage missing as well, Samos sends the boys to hunt for enough cells so Keira can upgrade the Zoomer's heat shield. While exploring the nearby mines, the two come across a massive Precursor automaton being unearthed by the Lurkers. Upon their return, Samos disappears and the truth is revealed: The Sages have been abducted by Gol and his sister Maia, who intend to harness their combined power to extract the Dark Eco in their possession and use it to remake the world.
Making their way through the tunnels leading to Gol's Citadel, the boys run into Keira, who reveals that the Yellow Sage has also been captured. With the four Sages now under their control, the Acheron siblings begin restoring the excavated automaton so they can release the Dark Eco from its silo. Rescuing the Sages from captivity, Jak and Daxter intercept the machine and engage it in battle. However, they only manage to destroy its Eco weapons. Realizing that a greater power is needed to defeat Gol and Maia, Samos directs Jak to combine the four different types of Eco into one, creating Light Eco. Daxter contemplates using the Light Eco to return himself to normal, but ultimately allows Jak to use it instead.
Unable to escape their crumbling machine, Gol and Maia fall into the silo and are presumed dead. With the world saved, the group focuses its attention on unlocking the fabled Precursor Door, which can only open with the energy of 100 Power Cells. Once the door is opened, it reveals a large, mysterious object enveloped in a blinding light.