The game begins in 1933, in a place where it appears that the people believe in vampires, as all the doors and windows show crosses. It shows a man and woman running down a street. The woman trips, and the man pauses long enough to help her up, only to be dragged into a dark alleyway by a chain. His head is thrown from an alley at the woman's feet, with Rayne (voiced by Laura Bailey) walking calmly up to the woman. The woman seemingly breaks down crying, but in fact only hides her face to reveal she is in fact a vampire. After a brief fight, Rayne decapitates her and then takes off before a small army of vampires tries to catch her off guard. She drops a grenade on their position as she leaves.
On top of the buildings, two mysterious men, who were watching the events unfold the whole time, are discussing their reason for being here. One reveals they are here to recruit Rayne, who is trying to find where her father is. The other member does not want a Dhampir with the Brimstone society, regardless of the fact that she is only half-vampire and has fewer weaknesses, as the Society is trying to rid the world of Vampires (and presumably people with Vampire blood in them). Eventually they agree to recruit Rayne, and leave a necklace with their symbol on it (as seen on the game cover).
=== Story ===
The game consists of three acts:
Mortton, Louisiana: the game starts in Mortton, Louisiana, as Rayne's first mission with the Brimstone Society, along with Mynce, her mentor. They are sent there to investigate an outbreak of an unidentified disease in the area.
Argentina: after the events in Mortton, the story skips several years ahead. Rayne is sent to infiltrate a Nazi base in Argentina, prevent the G.G.G. from obtaining the mystic artifact known as "the skull of Beliar" and eliminate the organization's head members.
Germany: Rayne finds an anonymous letter informing her that a G.G.G. officer in Germany has list of the remaining G.G.G. officers. After obtaining the list, she pursues her targets to Castle Gaustadt, to eradicate the G.G.G., and eventually, Jurgen Wulf himself.
=== Characters ===
Rayne is a dhampir looking for her father, and kills any vampire that crosses her path. She is working for the Brimstone Society.
Mynce is Rayne's friend and mentor. She helps her with her first assignment, during which she is seemingly killed.
Juergen Wulf is the leader of Gegengeist Gruppe (Counter-Ghost Group, abbreviated G.G.G.), a group that aims to bring Hitler into power through use of occult artifacts, including obtaining and reassembling the remains of Beliar.
Beliar was the original devil, usurped by Mephisto who tore him apart scattering his body parts around the world. These "relics" retain some of his power, granting their owners supernatural abilities.