Nyāko (にゃーこ), the older sister of Nyatta (にゃっ太), lies very ill in her room. By accident, Nyatta drowns in the bathtub and, whilst being clinically dead, sees his sister leaving the house holding hands with the Japanese version of Ksitigarbha (known as Jizou in Japanese) and proceeds to follow them. Nyatta tries to take his sister back from Jizou but it holds on to her refusing to let go. Nyāko splits in two leaving Jizou with half of her soul while her brother runs away with the other half. Jizou sends a clue about a flower they must search for in order to retrieve the missing half-soul, then walks away with it.
Meanwhile, Nyatta's father finds his son in the bathtub and revives him. Then, all the family members gather in Nyāko's room to find out that she is dead. Nyatta gets closer with the half-soul in his arms and puts it back in his sister's body through her nose. Nyāko wakes up, but she remains despondent and semi-catatonic. After that Nyatta and Nyāko begin their journey (because their mother asks them to go and buy some fried tofu). During their outing they visit the 'Big Whale Circus', the final act of which is a giant penguin-looking bird "filled" with various weather, causes a flood of water which covers everything. The two of them end up on an Ark-esque boat with a pig, which they eventually begin to eat (by unzipping his stomach and pulling out butcher slabs). God drains the world of the oceans (by holding up the world so the water on it runs down his arm), leaving the cats and pig stranded in a desert. The pig is beaten to death and bites off Nyatta's arm, which is repaired by a desert-dweller who makes dolls from the pieces of other cats.
Traveling across the desert, they are brought to a house by the smell of food, and are invited inside by a man. They are fed, and when full the man attempts to turn them into soup, attacking them with a pair of scissors. He ends up falling into the cauldron, Nyatta cuts him into pieces with the scissors and the cats escape. Wandering further across the desert dehydrated, Nyatta digs and finds an elephant made of water, which cools them off and travels with them, though the elephant eventually evaporates from the heat. God accidentally stops the flow of time and disrupts space, and the cats play with the time-frozen scenes. Father Time turns time back on, shooting it forward and reversing it, showing various scenes of random events either rapidly going forth in time or back. Eventually the cats find themselves back on their boat in the ocean. They drift into a marsh of metallic plants and creatures, coming across the flower they were seeking. Nyatta places the flower on Nyākos face, which restores her to normal. Together, they go back home.
In the end, the entire family of cats are gathered in their house leisurely watching TV. Nyatta leaves them to visit the toilet, and while he is gone, the other family members disappear one by one into thin air. The show on the TV also disappears, leaving only a flashing screen behind. Nyatta returns to find everyone gone. Outside the nearby lamppost extinguishes leaving the house in darkness. Finally the movie also "turns off", leaving behind a flashing screen of static before the credits roll.