This is the story "Mariana Cantú" and "Silvana Del Valle Ontiveros", the twins in question. Silvana is taken away from her mother, Rocio, and sister at birth. by Gerardo Ontiveros, who paid the doctor that helped Rocio give birth for one of the twins; as his own sister, Regina, needed an infant to pose as her own daughter with her husband Rolando, who Silvana grows up believing is her biological father, as she cannot have children herself in order to keep him and his money at her side.
After 12 years, the twins meet again.
They see the resemblance between them, and Silvana asks Mariana to switch places with her for a day so that she can audition as Silvana and get a part in a famous upcoming children's band called Cómplices al Rescate, as Mariana can sing well and Silvana cannot sing at all.
A while later, Silvana's "father" Rolando's heart illness becomes worse and he eventually suffers a stroke, which leaves him in the hospital. Regina, thinking Rolando has left all his money to her in his will, sees this as an opportunity to kill Rolando and have what she's always wanted, his fortune. Regina tells a weak Rolando that Silvana is not his biological daughter and that she has only been with him for his money the entire marriage. This angers Rolando, who then tries to get up and hurt Regina but ends up suffering another heart attack and dies on the scene.
Regina is then informed that Rolando had changed his will at the last minute, seeing as how she was always cold and never a real mother to Silvana. Rolando changed his will and left all the money to Silvana, leaving her nanny, Macrina and her godfather, Raul, in charge of the fortune until Silvana turns eighteen. This infuriates Regina, who then realizes that the twins have met and uses this as an opportunity to get the inheritance back under her name and remain rich. Regina and Gerardo then decide to kidnap Mariana too and force her to pose as Silvana, seeing as how she is actually able to sing, with the intention of making a fortune off of the Complices band and eventually, get back the inheritance.
Nanny Macrina is now in charge of Mariana too, who is being forced to pose as Silvana, and sees how Mariana is becoming friends with the Complices. She tells Mariana that perhaps the Complices will be able to help. Mariana opens up to Joaquin, Julia, Felipe and Andres, who agree to help return both twins to their mother.
Silvana is the one who was kidnapped and she is selfish, spoiled and arrogant. On the other hand, Mariana is sweet, humble and caring because was raised by Rocio, who is the same way.
Throughout the series they meet people like Joaquin and his siblings. Joaquin is an orphan along with his sister Julia and his brother Felipe. Their parents died in a car accident and the kids were left in the care of his aunt Florencia, who later gets tired of them and abandons them.
With the help of their friend and neighbor Andres (who is secretly in love with Julia) and his parents, these kids can keep living alone in the home. This becomes their biggest secret, one they must keep at all costs from the world, especially their neighbor Doña Meche, who becomes obsessed with proving that the children live alone.
Mariana, still posing as Silvana, asks the Complices to return Silvana to her mother so that Rocio's suffering will end and for Silvana to finally meet their mother. The Complices succeed in doing so, returning Silvana, who is now posing as Mariana, to Rocio. Rocio is ecstatic to have her daughter back, but Silvana, thinking Rocio gave her away as a baby, the lie Regina told her, acts very cold towards her mother the entire time she is posing as Mariana.
The series is split into two parts, during Belinda (whom played the roles of Silvana and Mariana before exiting the show) and after. The first part ends shortly after Belinda's exit on Monday, May 13th 2002, when the twins are finally rescued by the kids and Alberto, Rocio's former boyfriend who is still madly in love with her. The second part begins when Daniela Lujan takes the place of Belinda portraying the twins on episode 92 the day Tuesday, May 14th 2002.
The twins are returned to Rocio, who is shocked to find out she truly did have twins as she suspected throughout her entire pregnancy. But being from a small, humble town, she was unable to get any sort of ultrasound done.
Shortly after, Alberto asks Rocio to marry him. He accepts and the two wed. When the truth about what Regina and Gerardo did comes to light, Gerardo flees and Regina fakes her own death. Rocio and her family move into Silvana's "father"'s mansion, which is now under Silvana's name.
This is where the second half of the story commences.
While Silvana was posing as Mariana, she realized that Rocio really wasn't aware that she had twins and did not give her up shortly after her birth. This helps Silvana unlock her singing voice and allows her to sing as beautifully as Mariana. The two twins now begin singing together as the lead vocalists of the Complices.
Regina comes back at this point under the alias Tania Belmont to take her revenge on Silvana. "Tania" opens up a new record label, Enter Records with the intent of starting a new band to destroy the Complices and get Silvana on her label so that she can gain her trust and get back Rolando's fortune.
Tania offers Silvana a recording contract as the one and only vocalist of a new band she calls Silvana y los Bandidos (Silvana and the Bandits). Silvana accepts, leaving Mariana broken and the other Complices hurting.
This becomes the main focus of the second half of the telenovela, Tania trying to get her revenge on Silvana and trying to destroy the Complices.
The telenovela ends as Tania is revealed to be Regina, has a mental breakdown and is taken to a mental hospital and Gerardo is captured by the police and taken to prison.
The finale of the telenovela happens on stage at Veracruz during a Complices concert where the band, now being joined again by Silvana and the other members of Silvana y los Bandidos, perform a show. Mantequilla comes on the stage wearing a sign around his neck that reads "FIN" (The End) and the Complices reunite with all the cast members of the show since the beginning (excluding Belinda) and dance El Baile del Sapito.