Inday (Marian Rivera) is a simple and innocent province girl with a loving mother. A fallen angel named Goldy (John Lapus) that can transform into a duck mets a tiyanak that was lost her way to heaven,but he refuses for he cannot go to heaven until he gets a person do good and rewards him salvation. Then they met Inday. The meeting was suddenly interrupted by her neighbor to tell her that her mother is dying.
She goes to the house, just as her mother reveals the painful truth, that she was just adopted by her after her real mother abandoned her in the woman's possession and that her real parents are on Manila and dies after that. Goldy,desperately decided that she can inherit his powers and she needs only to meet his conditions and criteria. As a trick, they hitchhike along with her, disguised as a mother and daughter that will find a way to Manila. The tiyanak carries her burial casket along and they disappeared just as the bus stops at Manila. As an innocent province-grown woman with no experience at work,she applies on a rich family as a maid. The man is a busy man, the kids are just spoiled and the wife has a secret.
Goldy and the tiyanak tries to help her secretly by giving her Goldy's golden eggs,that contains fractions of Goldy's power. The wife's youthful secret is when she sacrifices a kid to demons for exchange of her appearance. And she needs more to achieve immortality and eternal youth. So she raises an army to do her bidding, until the demons requested to kill her husband's descendants. As the demonic army tried to abduct the kids,Inday (with Goldy's help), repels the attackers,but was framed and fired by the woman for her actions.
Heartbroken,she sets off to find clues of what her real mother looks like,until she found her in a market. She tracks her and rents a room nearby and lives their daily lives by selling eggs painted gold and scavenging for recyclables,until she has enough courage to confront her. The mother told the truth and introduces her to her father.
Kokang, suspicious of what's happening,stalks her employer and knows the secret,but caught by the latter and hypnotized.
Until then,the demons still attacks and abducts kids for sacrifices until Amazing Jay got entangled in the mess. Inday tries and successfully repels such attack. She and Jay tries to investigate,until they found Kokang,under the spell. She dispels it and runs away from the demons. She tried to transform into Super Inday,but Kokang ate the real one,transforming her into Copycat.
With enough power, Inday, Jay and Copycat duels with Ingrid and her demonic minions. Defeating her and driving her to die in the altar.
Few days later, Goldy and the tiyanak (later named Angelika) got their ticket to ascend to heaven, when a crab monster with a human overlord appears in a pond. Inday and Jay appears and fights the monster as Goldy and Angelika ascends to Heaven.