The film is set in the Kurdish refugee camp on the Iraqi-Turkish border on the eve of the US invasion of Iraq. Thirteen-year-old Satellite (Soran Ebrahim) is known for his installation of dishes and antennae (for local villages who are looking for news of Saddam Hussein) and for his limited knowledge of English. He is the dynamic, but manipulative leader of the children, organizing the dangerous but necessary sweeping and clearing of the minefields. Many of these children are injured one way or the other, yet still maintain a boisterous prattle whenever possible, devoted to their work in spite of the vagaries of their life.
The industrious Satellite arranges trade-ins for undetonated mines. He falls for an orphan named Agrin, assisting her whenever possible in order to win her over. She is a perpetual dour-faced girl who is part bitter, part lost in thought, unable to escape the demons of the past. Traveling with her is her disabled, but very caring brother Hengov, who appears to have the gift of clairvoyance, though he seems to have a bad reputation for it. The siblings stay with a blind toddler named Riga. On course, we come to know that Agrin gave birth to him after she was gang raped by soldiers (In Agrin and Hengov's village, the girls had been killed after being raped, while the boys and their families were plain butchered. Hengov's arms had been shot as the soldiers attempted to drown both children). Throughout the film, we see how Agrin has been unable to accept Riga (who according to Agrin mysteriously unties his tethered leg and walks at night and returns to the camp safely despite his claims of being blind) as anything besides a taint, a continuous reminder of a brutal past.
Agrin tries to abandon the child on multiple occasions, until finally she ties him to a rock and throws him to the bottom of the lake, afterwards committing suicide herself by jumping from a cliff. When her brother sees a vision of his loved ones drowning, he hurries out of the tent crying and tries to salvage whatever can be. However, his nightmare is late & indeed all is lost by then. On his way to the lake, a flashback of Agrin in her final moments haunts Hengov standing on the abandoned tanks, Hengov eventually finds his nephew s body at the bottom of the lake but can't cut it loose from the rock partly due to his inability. At last he is seen grieving on the cliff from where Agrin jumped to her death, where he ultimately collects the shoes left behind by Agrin before the fatal leap. By the turn of the events including a disabled Satellite, the same protagonist loses any charm he had about the American intervention and looks away when the American soldiers finally pass close by him.