Josh and high maintenance girlfriend Emily are having a nice dinner and decide that Emily should sleep over. Emily is only slightly upset because Josh has to leave tomorrow to go on a road trip, but the dinner is still pretty calm. But the calm does not last when dinner is tainted by an inappropriate phone call to Josh. Emily throws the table about half way through the call and leaves. Josh tells the man on the phone that he will call him back and calls Emily leaving an apologetic voicemail. The next morning Josh, feeling bad about what happened, goes to Emily's house and picks her up for the road trip, despite the original plan to go by himself, visit his brother Rhett, and get his father a purple recliner for his birthday. Instead of just visiting Rhett as planned, Rhett tags along for the rest of the trip against Emily's will. They, next, stop at a motel where Josh tries to act like he is the only one there to get the room cheaper but fails. The next day, they go to pick up the chair but it has been falsely advertised and is in awful condition, entitling them to a payed for reupholstering job. The chair is at the shop while in the mean time, Rhett is falling in love with a woman named Amber and that night they are unofficially married, by Josh. Later, Josh expresses his true feelings about what is going to become of Rhett and Amber's relationship (It'll probably last a week and then Rhett will get bored.) to Emily and she gets very angry at him for not appreciating romance. But the fight turns when she claims she deserves better and Josh gets very angry with her and stomps out. The next morning, Josh goes to pick up the chair and has to get extremely firm, some would say hostile, with the man who does the reupholstering because he is being very unreasonable. Rhett does not appreciate the way that Josh obtained the chair and says it has "bad mojo". Later that night he burns the chair and Josh catches him doing this. He tackles him and Josh ends up breaking his own arm. The next morning, they finally show up at dads house, no chair and Josh in cast. After a talk with his father about marriage, Josh talks to Emily about the future of their relationship and they mutually decide that they should break up.