The story begins in an airport, when Jignesh a.k.a. Jiggy (Nirav Mehta), Ravindran a.k.a. Rotlu (Karan Makhija), Sandhya a.k.a. Bombs (Alishka Varde), and Shaleen (Sugandha Garg) offer to tell Mala (Renuka Kunzru), Jiggy's friend and crush, the tale of Jai and Aditi, a love story with joys and sorrows, happiness and heartbreak, laughter, songs, and fights, and...a climax at the airport. Mala is initially uninterested in the story and hates love stories in general, but still agrees to listen as the flight carrying the friends they have come to receive is late.
Meet Jai Singh Rathore, a.k.a. 'Rats (Imran Khan), the most non-violent Rajput ever. Meet Aditi Mahant(Genelia D'Souza), a.k.a. ‘Meow‘, a highly aggressive, impulsive girl. She abuses and scratches people (hence the name Meow). Despite their differences, Jai and Aditi are college-going best buddies. Rotlu, Jiggy, Bombs, and Shaleen are also college-mates of Jai and Aditi, and a part of their group. Rotlu loves Aditi and Bombs loves Jai. However, Jai and Aditi are always so busy with each other that they overlook this. Jai and Aditi are perfect for each other. Their friends know this. Their parents know this. Everybody but the two themselves know this. Aditi dreams of a virile, macho husband, while Jai wants a sweet, romantic girl. Since the two of them don't believe that they are in love, after finishing their college they decide to hunt for a perfect life partner for each other. Jai falls in love with Meghna (Manjari Phadnis) at first sight in a club where two psychos were misbehaving with her. He saves her, not by fighting but by tricking the two psychos who always ride horses. Meghna always plays the game of imagination, “What's this?” When Meghna and Jai get close to each other, Rotlu, Jiggy, Bombs, and Shaleen are happy for Jai but nobody notices that Aditi is missing Jai's company. Aditi notices changes in Jai's behaviour.
Meghna informs Jai that her parents squabble but cannot live without each other. She says this is really "cute." Jai visits Meghna's parents. Her father is an alcoholic. Her parents always argue with each other and Jai feels uncomfortable around them. When Jai goes to meet Meghna's parents, he misses Aditi's surprise birthday party. She is hurt by this and acts rudely to Jai when he goes to wish her a happy birthday later that evening.
Aditi gets engaged to her father's friend's son, Sushant Modi (Ayaz Khan). She sees in him the macho man she always wanted. However, Sushant is also a spoilt playboy. Aditi's brother, Amit (Prateik Babbar), tries to make her see who Sushant really is. But Aditi thinks that Jai loves Meghna and continues her relationship with Sushant. At Jiggy's birthday bash, Aditi introduces her fiancé. Then everyone decides to dance. Aditi is disturbed because she is jealous seeing Jai with Meghna, and Jai is upset that Aditi is engaged and disturbed. Aditi becomes emotional seeing Jai with Meghna, however, in the middle of the dance, Sushant thinks Aditi is crying because she likes him and kisses her. Jai sees this and stops dancing abruptly. While taking Meghna home, she tries to cheer him up, but it just results him in becoming more angry. He shouts at Meghna for acting childishly.
Jai realises that Meghna is a girl who runs away from reality and hides in rather stupid refuges. Meghna breaks down and lets Jai know how and why she became this way. Meghna shares her dark childhood story of her father (Rajat Kapoor) having an extra-marital affair and her mother, Sheela(Kitu Gidwani) leaving the residence, but later only returning for Meghna's sake. Meghna is hurt when she sees her parents in pain solely on her account. But since there's no other way round, she decides to close her eyes and see things the way she wants, in a happy manner. Therefore, according to her, her parents fight in a very 'cute' manner. All is happy in the way she sees things, and does not want anyone to remove this veil before her eyes until she is ready for it. The next day, to cheer up things, she kids Jai by saying that Aditi is the right girl for him and he should marry her instead. Jai is taken aback when Meghna laughs and apologises, saying that she was only joking, and did not intend to shock Jai. But Jai reveals that there is more truth to the joke than Meghna thinks, and says that he is actually in love with Aditi. Meghna is shattered and leaves with a goodbye kiss. Aditi reveals her feelings for Jai under duress from Sushant, who slaps her on her face, leaving a bruise. Aditi breaks up with him and decides to go to the USA to study film-making at New York University's Tisch School of the Arts. Jai spots the bruise on Aditi's face and contrary to his usual non-violent nature, he thrashes Sushant for daring to lay a hand on her.
Inspector Waghmare (Paresh Rawal), an old enemy of Jai's mother Savitri Rathore (Ratna Pathak), arrests Jai for thrashing Sushant and puts him behind the bars. There, he meets the two psychos,Vinay Singh Rathore a.k.a. Bhageere (Sohail Khan) and Kuber Singh Rathore a.k.a. Bhaloo (Arbaaz Khan), who were harassing Meghna in the club. However, they find out that they are closely related cousins, separated in childhood. They tell him that for a boy to become a man in their Rathore clan, he must complete three conditions: 1.) Thrash someone 2.) Get arrested 3.) Ride a horse. They tell him that his father was a brave man and fought heroically with his enemies but died while doing so. Jai realizes that his mother had lied to him by claiming that his father was a non-violent person who died while trying to stop someone's fight. Unaware of all this, Aditi makes her way to the international airport for departure to USA. Bhaloo and Bhageere, who are sons of an MLA, use their influence to get Jai free, following which, Jai rides a horse, borrowed from his cousin, and heads towards the airport to stop her. Thus, Jai fulfills all the three conditions to become a man in Rathore Clan, causing dismay to Jai's mother and delight to spirit of Jai's father(Naseeruddin Shah), as he had challenged Jai's mother that Jai will fulfill the conditions some day.
He jumps over the security booths and runs, seeking for Aditi, while the Airport security chases him, supposing him to be a terrorist who ran away from security checks. He finds Aditi and sings the song – "Jaane tu ya jaane na" for her, which is the same song that Jai had said in the beginning he'd sing for the love of his life. Aditi, delighted, hugs him and cancels her US trip. Airport security cop Inspector Prakash, on finding that Jai is not a terrorist, lets him go, but with a warning.
Rotlu, Jiggy, Bombs and Shaleen conclude the story and welcome Jai and Aditi, just returning from their honeymoon after 5 years, at the airport. Mala gets extremely delighted to see them and introduces herself as Jiggy’s girlfriend and they leave the airport together.