When David King purchases a house in the hills far above the angst of Los Angeles, he gets much more than he bargained for when strange and unexplainable occurrences in and around the house begin to take control of his daily life. After he and his loyal dog Sebastian settle into the house, David begins to realize theres something particularly odd with the neighborhood, and it all seems to stem from the house at the end of the drive. Before long, ghostly voices begin to whisper through the intercom system in the dead of night, strange visitors arrive, some with unsettling accounts of the houses history, and David becomes plagued with a series terrifying and gruesome hallucinations.During a dinner party at his home with friends, Robert, Felicia and Jennifer, David discovers more about the neighborhoods bloody history, and fact and fiction intertwine as the friends talk ghosts and spirits from beyond, and David recounts his odd experiences in the house. The night prompts the friends to take steps that will alter their lives forever.When they decide to sneak in and explore the decrepit house at the end of the drive, supernatural forces from the past transport them through time back to a night of brutality and murderous bloodshed. In a cruel twist of fate, David, Robert, Felicia and Jennifer materialize as the soon to be victims of a massacre they had been discussing earlier over a quiet and casual dinner. Is the knowledge of the future enough to shield them from the horrors of the Helter-Skelter mayhem from the past? Can careful plotting overpower the supernatural invasion by a most infamous family of mass murders? Surely yesterday is finally over but only time will tell, as the hapless visitors to the house at the end of the drive are swept into a hell storm of dark forces and fury beyond belief.The film is inspired by the true events of the Sharon Tate slayings one of the most heinous crimes of the 20th Century that shocked the world. Many of the events that take place in HOUSE AT THE END OF THE DRIVE are based on actual events that had taken place in the OMAN house where principal photography was shot. Like THE EXORCIST and THE ENTITY before it, the film is anchored in documented evidence of the paranormal.Which is scarier the past or the present? Sometimes there is no difference!