Prologue: Jacob Van Helsing (Rhett Giles), the great grandson of Stoker's vampire hunter Abraham Van Helsing, put together a troupe of nine experienced vampire hunters, led by Colonel Rufus King (Thomas Downey), all of whom took their jobs seriously and their weapons even more seriously. On Walpurghisnacht (April 30th), after staking Orlock and his clan in their nest, the Nine were summoned by the vampire Rafe (Jeff Denton) to a meeting of the High Council in order to discuss armistice between vampires and hunters. The Old One (Leigh Scott) spoke for the vampire clans, and Rufus spoke for the Nine. Between them, they agreed that the vampires would stop hunting humans, including purebloods (human descendants of Drakulya and his vampire brides), and that the Nine would stop hunting vampires. As he leaves the meeting, Rufus is approached by his right hand (wo)man, Gracie Johannsen (Eliza Swenson), apparently wanting to continue their relationship on a personal level. Rufus turns Gracie down, and Gracie stalks off in a huff.Present time: Five years have passed. The Nine have moved on with their personal lives, except for Gracie who has taken to the bottle. However, when pureblood Christina Lockheart (Erica Kessler) is abducted by three vampiresses (Dracula's brides) from the bed she shares with fiance Rick Tattinger (Tom Nagel), Rufus is called to action. He is informed that Countess Erzebet Bathorly (Christina Rosenberg), once protegee to the great Count Drakulya, is behind the abduction, still alive after she was presumed dead over 100 years ago. Bathorly doesn't care a fig about the armistice and aims, with the help of the three brides, to strengthen their blood by drinking the blood of purebloods in order to gain enough power to take over the city. She begins by destroying The Old One. With offers of help from Rafe and from Christina's fiance, Rufus decides to reassemble the Nine in order to hunt down Bathorly and her followers.At first, the reassembling doesn't look promising. Rufus deliberately left out Gracie. Trixie McFly (Rebekah Kochan) doesn't want to come back if Gracie isn't coming back, and no one wants to work with Rick just because he is Christina's fiance. After Jacob takes the time to train Rick, Jimmy "The Kidd" D'Amico (Derek Osedach) arms Rick with guns,and the group begins to fall together. There's Jacob, Rufus, Trixie, and Rick, along with Rich "Nebraska" Zulkowski (Chriss Anglin), Anastasia Ravenwood (Marie Westbrook), and Sadie MacPherson (Sarah Hall). Rafe also agrees to lend a hand. Jacob visits his vampire lover, Alex Deveraux (Sarah Lieving), asking her to see if she can discover the location of Bathorly's lair.Meanwhile, Rafe has decided to side with Bathorly. He's reassembled the Stalkers, and they are searching and abducting purebloods. Alerted by Rufus' vampire friend Konstantinos (Griff Furst), Rufus and the Nine confront Rafe, who explains that they are feeding on purebloods in order to regain their strength so that Bathorly cannot obtain power over both vampires and humans. Rufus agrees not to kill Rafe on the spot, but he makes him promise that he will not feed on the humans. When Gracie's sister, a pureblood, goes missing, Gracie shows up at the Nine's bunker and demands that they help find her. After a blowup with Rufus, however, Gracie grabs two submachine guns and goes looking for vampires. She shoots up every vampire in a bar, but is horrified to find that one of the guys she thought was a vampire was actually a human.Gracie returns to the bunker and agrees to rejoin the Nine in their raid on Bathorly. Alex, having infiltrated the lair, relays to Jacob its location, and the Nine are ready to roll. Unfortunately, Bathorly allowed Alex to drink from a pureblood, and Alex can't remember what she might have told the Countess about Rufus and their plans to annihilate the clan. Gracie and Rufus leave together, but they are met outside by Rafe and two of his henchmen. Rafe admits that he has no intention of upholding the pact, and Rafe attacks Rufus with a sword. Rufus gets the best of Rafe and beheads him. Gracie stakes one of the henchmen, and Rufus stakes the other, just as he's about to bite Gracie's neck.The Nine break into Bathorly's lair and find both Christina Lockheart and Gracie's sister have been turned into vampires. Rick is forced to kill Christina, and Gracie kills her sister, but bullets don't even slow down the Countess. She's become too powerful. A big fight between vampires and hunters commences, and Jacob is wounded. As he lay dying, Alex turns him. Gracie, now revealed also as a pureblood, offers herself to Bathorly in place of Rufus. In the ending twist, Rufus reveals himself to be Drakulya and, through thought-walking, he kills Bathorly. He then explains that he made a deal with the Dark Forces to renounce his identity and live as a man, fighting against vampires, against the plague that he himself created. In revealing himself to the others, however, Refus is returned to his former state and must continue to exist as a vampire. [Full synopsis by BJ Kuehl]