Overseas Filipino Worker Sandy (Kris Aquino) return to the Philippines with Dale (Wendell Ramos) from Dubai, United Arab Emirates in preparation for their wedding. After returning to her home, Sandy learns from a caretaker of her neighbor's house that Helen, Sandy's childhood friend, had died along with her family years ago. She tried to convince her mother, Tessie (Boots Anson-Roa) about what happened to Helen. A short time after the death of Helen's father Dr. Quisumbing, Helen plans her wedding but is advised that she must postpone the wedding because her marriage will be cursed which one should not marry within the same year when an immediate family member dies. Helen didn't heed the warning and resumes the wedding. A few weeks after the wedding, Helen's husband dies in a plane crash. As Helen goes to the crash site, she dies in a bus accident. A few weeks later, Helen's mother suddenly disappears inside her house. After several years, their house has been abandoned after their deaths and no other tenants had sold it.
Meanwhile, in Bibiclat, Aliaga, Diana (Claudine Barretto) and Brian (Bernard Palanca) celebrates their marriage when they were interrupted along with the other sponsors by a sound of a funeral toll from the belfry of the church. After they resume the wedding, Diana saw the glimpse of a mysterious flower girl watching her during the reception.
The next day, Sandy and Dale proceed with their wedding. During the ceremony, Sandy becomes bewildered and her nose begins to bleed. While Sandy resumes her rites with Dale, she sees the ghostly flower girl in front of her. Meanwhile, Diana witnesses Brian accidentally fall off the roof of their house. She, Erning (Jhong Hilario) and the other builders take him to the local hospital but dies from his defenestration. At the morgue while Diana mourns Brian's loss, Brian's mother Belen (Raquel Villavicencio), Diana's aunt Lagring, Erning and Lagring's daughter Grace (Glaiza de Castro) arrive but Brian's body suddenly disappears; instead Diana's wedding veil, which she tried to find earlier, is on the table where Brian was.
After their reception, Sandy and Dale witness the van carrying Sandy's friends Betsy and Edith fall down a ravine. Rescuers couldn't find their bodies but found Sandy's wedding veil inside the van. Joya (Maja Salvador), the psychic daughter of Dale's cousin Paola (Maurene Mauricio), was present at the accident and also saw the flower girl at the reception earlier. She recalls to Sandy in her vision about what happened to Helen's wedding. After Joya left, the police gives the veil to Sandy, upset how it ended up outside of the box it was packed inside of a box along with all the other wedding paraphernalia.
After they return to the house, Lagring and Grace chase after Diana when she follows her husband's ghost into the forest. Diana stops at the forest and tries to find him but finds Brian's writing on a tree, seeking for his distress before Grace arrives. They suddenly see the flower girl when Lagring is rammed by a speeding bus, leaving Diana's bridal cord from the accident.
Later during their sleep at her house, Sandy frantically sees the flower girl in her bedroom when Dale awakes and comforts her. The couple decide to seek help from Joya and ;after they learn from Dale's mother Gilda (Liza Lorena) that she'll be leaving with Paola to Nueva Ecija, arrive at the bus station before Paola could leave with her daughter.
Things become more mysterious when Sandy and Diana receives their respective wedding photos. The people who died are all headless in the photos, and they realize that these people are bound to die. Joya tells Sandy that she is cursed by sukob. Sandy is shocked, as no one in her family has died recently nor gotten married. It found out that his father lied. He had a child out of wedlock. But, he left her and the child who turned out to be Diana. Tessie decided to leave. But her family followed her until a car ran over. As Tessie scolded the driver who is drunk, Joya sees the child. Sandy warns Tessie to leave, but a scaffolding falls on her. They try to find her, but they see nothing but a bridal cord.
In searching for the truth, Sandy unearths a dark family secret. Sandy goes to her hometown with Dale. While staying at a hotel, Dale is taken away by the flower girl with the candle. While on the run outside, Grace and Diana are spotted by the ghostly flower girl. Grace, who was frightened, steps back into the woods only to be abducted by Lagring's apparition. A few seconds later, Diana searches for Grace but finds only the wedding candle on the grass. As Sandy finds out about Dale's disappearance, she goes to the police station. However, the station runs out of electricity, while tables and chairs begin to move by themselves. Sandy runs outside and as she drives her car, she accidentally hits Diana. She helps Diana and, after asking questions, finds out they are really half-sisters.
Both realize they were married in the same year and on the same day, and one must sacrifice a life in order to break the curse. Diana and Sandy go to the church where Diana was wed and are encountered by the ghostly flower girl. The two are entrapped at the top of the belfry and the flower girl, whose mission is to take the life of the sacrificed, attempts to touch Diana's belly. This meant that her baby is the sacrifice. Sandy stops the ghost and falls from the belfry, dying and thus breaking the curse. Diana finally meets their father, and the movie ends when he sees the ghosts of Tessie and Sandy, causing him to scream.