"Saawariya" - a Magical Tale beautifully picturised by Director Sanjay Leela Bhansali. This story, inspired by Fyodor Dostoevsky's short story, "White Nights" is about a happy go lucky guy ( Raj played by Ranbir Kapoor) and Sakina (Sonam Kapoor) narrated by a prostitute(Gulabjee played by Rani Mukherjee).The movie is about Raj who meets this girl Sakina on a bridge one night.They both become friends after initial apprehension from Sakina. They meet the next night also and thats when Raj realises that he is deeply and madly in love with her.But even before he could propose to the girl, she tells him about her lover(Imaan played by Salman) for whom she waits every night on the bridge , for he had promised to return in EID(Ramzan), as the EID is just 2 days away.Raj is completely shocked and still tries to impress her.finally the D-Day comes and while Sakina waits for Imaan Raj asks her to a dinner and then asks her to spend some more time for which she refuses as she has to get to the bridge for Imaan.When there s no sign of Imaan and after a lot of Drama between Raj Sakina and Gulabjee they realize that Imaan might not return.This is when Raj asks Sakina to give him one chance to prove his love for her. She dusnt say anything.Even before she could think about saying yes to Raj, Imaan returns. Imaan and Sakina live happily ever after.
Saawariya is a Bollywood film to be released in November 2007, directed by Sanjay Leela Bhansali. It will be released by Sony Pictures, and will thus be the first Indian movie produced by a Hollywood production house. It is based on Fyodor Dostoevsky's short story, White Nights.
The lead roles will be played by débutantes Ranbir Kapoor (Rishi Kapoor's son) and Sonam Kapoor (Anil Kapoor's daughter).The film also stars Salman Khan and Rani Mukerji in supporting roles. The protagonist is young 22 year old man who is a dreamer. He comes across a young lady and their story begins. Days are as bright as night. The story is based on four nights that the protagonists spend together. It is the story of a shy dreamer, Raj (22 years old), who spent most of his time isolated in his apartment, creating riddles and finding answers to them, jabbering poetry or arguing with his foolish landlady Miss Disa, with whom he shared a love/hate relationship.
Raj was loved by one and all, for he always brought happiness to the people around him. Destiny plans a magical tale for Raj over the next four nights of his life that shall change his entire being "Saawariya" is the story of a couple's chance encounter and the advance of their parallel obsessions over four successive nights. An impromptu romance is initiated in a remote town in the serene beauty of picturesque Simla, a quaint hill station in Northern India that was once the summer capital of India under the British Raj, known for its lakes, mist, heavenly snowfall, rains and the tall swaying pine trees. The bright, fun-filled winding streets of the mall come alive with singing clubs, rustic folklore, dancing, love ballads, flourishing colonies of artists and weavers, and chants from the monastery- all woven in perfect harmony into a magical dream. It is here that the dreamer finds the 'lost' self in himself.The story first introduces Ranbir Raj (Ranbir Kapoor). Raj is a free bird with no tension at all, Raj soon joins RK Bar, the town's most luxurious club, as the lead singer. During the singing, he makes friends with Gulabji (Rani Mukherji), a prostitute. Knowing what Gulabji does, Raj still treats her in friendly manner. Raj tells Gulabji that he needs somewhere to stay Gulabji then tells Raj that there is only one woman to give you a house and that is Lilian (Zohra Sehgal), who Raj decides to meet the next morning. Raj meets Lilian and she emotionally agrees to let Raj stay with her. Raj goes out for a walk and meets a mystery girl dressed in black and holding a umbrella. Raj tries to talk to her, but she shies away and Raj starts to follow her. Getting the wrong impression, the girl shouts at Raj and tells him to go away. Raj tells her that he will go away, but asks what if another bad guy starts to follow you. The girl agrees and lets Raj take her home. The mystery girl tells Raj that her name is Sakina (Sonam Kapoor), and there and then Raj falls in love with her. Sakina tells Raj that she is already in love with someone else just when Raj was about to tell Sakina that he loves her. Sakina says that his name is Imaan (Salman Khan), but he is in jail. Sakina and Raj start to fall in love when Sakina beilieves that Imaan is not going to come. When Sakina and Raj go for another walk, Sakina spots Imaan standing on the bridge. Sakina says to Raj that she loves Imaan and Raj knowing how much Sakina loves Imaan lets her go and she bids him a tearful goodbye. [D-Man2010]