Explorer Cliff Hendricks rescues the beautiful young Janet from her primitive African jungle where she was born, a land rife with savagery and devil worship that lured her parents into an early death. Back in America, she becomes a ravishing woman before Cliffs eyes. They fall passionately in love and marry, and she bears him four children: Luke, Matthew, Paul and Rebecca. Cliff later learns that he's contracted a rare African virus from his travels to Africa, one that deprives him of his virility and turns him into an invalid.Janet takes on the responsibility of raising their offspring and caring for Cliff, although her ways are seen as quite peculiar -- even untamed -- in modern day Los Angeles her children live a sheltered life, and are schooled at home. Her son Paul rarely leaves the house and daughter Rebecca reluctantly only leaves when she is required to go to work. Luke, the eldest, is the only one of the four to strike out on his own. Everyone believes that Matthew ran away years ago to escape his mother's prison; no one has seen him since his twenty first birthday.Paul's 21st birthday is cause for celebration and Luke is invited home for the festivities. Although his mothers behavior is unnatural to Luke, he deeply loves his father and siblings, and reluctantly agrees to return to Janet's home.Luke finds that much has changed since he left. His room is now Janets office where she has taken up the lucrative career of selling tribal art on the internet. Paul is even more reclusive, and his only friends are some marionettes he made as a child. Rebecca, has become more outgoing and experimental with her sexuality, and she even tries to seduce Luke despite appearing as a naive and loving sister. Meanwhile, Cliffs health is deteriorating faster than anyone expected. His mind is fraught with delusions, and he suffers severe memory gaps. Most shocking is Janet's callous attitude towards Cliff. He lives like a caged animal under the auspices of the malicious Janet.Things turn stranger in the Hendricks house when a number of objects d'art take on lifelike characteristics. Luke suspects that Janet's art may actually be human remains from the jungle of her past. Her faithfulness to Cliff, too, seems to be increasingly deceptive and sinister. Pauls childhood fascination with puppet storytelling hints of a tribal-based discipline, and Rebeccas love for her brother Luke appears to be more than just incestuous sentiments. And perhaps Matthew didnt run away after all. An investigative reporter who crops up on the scene suspects that some of the family members may be involved in serial murders or ritual killings. She's right, but she'll never get a chance to uncover the real secret.What began as a happy occasion for Cliff and his newfound love erodes into a pit of darkness, a satanic feast of the flesh, an unspeakable act of twisted humanity, an unthinkable nightmare of carnality, and an apocalyptic journey into the realm of diseased minds. Discover a world of forbidden pleasures and moral decadence. Discover the Cannibal Taboo.