The Box Collector (synopsis) 26.03.07.Harry Green is a brooding young artist, who collects boxes of all sizes and shapes and draws them. His possessive and over-protective mother Beth, a widow of twenty years, dominates him. Harry suffers from recurring nightmares, a blocked-out memory from his childhood, where he saw his drunken father run over by a train on the tracks facing their home. Beth spends her time with her cat Marquise, reminiscing about her once glorious past and dealing herself playing cards to predict her future.
When Maria Dupont , a pretty young divorcee with a toddler Kiki moves into the house next door, their lives will change profoundly. Maria is a European and on the run from her violent American ex-husband Mike. Beth sees in Maria a carbon copy of the type of woman her late husband, Harrys father, squandered their family money on. When Maria sets her lustful eyes on Harry, Beth solicits the help of Luz, the local Haitian manicurist. Luz is married to Burt, a snake handler. Luz is a self-proclaimed clairvoyant who informs Beth that Marias house is haunted and foresees bloodshed. And indeed, unpleasant things start to occur at Marias house: windows are broken, a flowerpot shattered, strange noises in the night, doors banging, windows opened, bath taps running Maria is scared but Harry is drawn towards Maria who is a sexy uninhibited tease. Harry loves her lust for life. Beside her temp job at the small towns chemical factory, once owned by Beths family, Maria gives erotic massages to late-night male visitors.
Beth loathes the young woman and cant bear the growing influence she has on Harry, who now spends most of his time babysitting Kiki. Although Beth thinks of her son as an artist, Maria discovers another side of Harry and when Mike, Marias stalking ex, finally turns up, Harry comes to her rescue and saves her from rape and a beating.
Beth starts losing her mind as Harry and Maria get closer and now love each other very much. Beth will do whatever it takes to stop the tramp next door from running off with her son. No one is going to touch Harry.
So Beths plan starts to go into action with twists, turns and revelations as Harry starts to unlock his mind and he begins to recall the events that lead to his fathers death.