It is three weeks away from the Oslo convention and Bill Clinton is on the verge of signing a treaty to ban the production of landmines, a dream many thought impossible, a dream brought about by the help of one woman, Princess Diana.Rachel Visco, a Red Cross worker and tireless anti-landmine campaigner, knows that Diana has achieved more for this cause in a matter of weeks than others have in years. . When she hears that Diana is heading to Paris, amidst a flurry of negative press, Rachel travels there herselfIn Paris Rachel contacts Thomas Silvestre, her ex-lover and a Lieutenant in the French Police. Charged with the protection of Dodi and Diana whilst in Paris, he has a formidable task just to keep up with the whereabouts of the secretive couple, let alone offer them any protection. Run ragged by the couples constant change of plans, Silvestre finally gives into Rachels offer of help and allows her past the swarming paparazzi at The Ritz hotel as an extra pair of eyes and ears. There Rachel notices a number of curiosities.At approximately 12:25am the Mercedes 280S, in which Princess Diana and her boyfriend were travelling, crashes in the Alma tunnel killing Dodi and the driver, Henri Paul, outright. Rachel arrives at the scene moments later to find chaos. She is rounded up with a group of paparazzi, accused of being complicit in the accident.
The next morning Rachel is called upon to give a statement to the police, but they seem uninterested in what Rachel has to say.Silvestre unearths a number of anomalies that only deepen the conspiracy. Silvestre is dismissed by Bertrand, his senior on the French police. Leaving his office for the last time, he meets a man (Anthony) who has been seen at a number of key locations over the past few days.Returning to his apartment, Rachel finds a gun man waiting for her (whom she easily disarms) and Silvestre already dead.Not knowing whom to trust, Rachel tracks down Anthony who turns out to be another pawn in a game of the highest stakes.© Delux Studios
(www.delux.lu)