Set in between Revenge of the Sith and A New Hope, Darth Vader is sent by Emperor Palpatine to destroy a Jedi named Kento Marek who survived Palpatine's Jedi purge and is hiding on the Wookiee homeworld, Kashyyyk. The Force Unleashed begins with the player controlling Darth Vader as he searches Kashyyyk for Marek. After defeating Marek in battle, Vader discovers his child, Galen Marek, who is strong in the Force and raises him to become his apprentice, unbeknownst to the Emperor. When the apprentice (known in the game as "Starkiller", and whom the player now controls) reaches adulthood, Vader sends him to kill the remaining Jedi as training for his ultimate goal: assassinating the Emperor so Vader and Starkiller can rule the galaxy together. Starkiller travels between missions aboard the Rogue Shadow, developing a close relationship with his crew, consisting of lightsaber training droid PROXY and Imperial pilot Juno Eclipse. Starkiller is first sent to defeat an aging Jedi Master that has his own security force: Rahm Kota. In this fight, Kota sees various visions of Starkiller's future before being blinded by Starkiller's lightsaber and falling to the ecumenopolis of Nar Shaddaa below. He is then sent to defeat an insane Jedi Master on Raxus Prime that has animated pieces of metal to create droids: Kazdan Paratus. Paratus and all of his droids are destroyed, including Paratus's mock Jedi Council. Finally, Starkiller is sent to kill former Jedi Councilwoman Shaak Ti on Felucia. Ti has militarised the local Force-sensitive Felucians as well as influenced the local fauna to attack Starkiller. Ultimately unsuccessful, Shaak Ti prophesises that the Sith will always turn on one another before she commits suicide by jumping into the sarlacc pit, becoming a force ghost.
Ti's prophecy comes true immediately. The Emperor discovers Starkiller's existence and forces Vader to kill the apprentice; Vader hurls Starkiller into space, but secretly dispatches droids to retrieve and revive him. Vader sends his apprentice to foster a rebellion among those who resist the Empire, distracting the Emperor so Vader can make his move. Starkiller proceeds to break into various Imperial facilities and recruit several allies, including Rahm Kota, Princess Leia Organa, and her father Senator Bail Organa. In the process, Starkiller learns from Kota about the Jedi way, which ultimately leads him into sparing Jedi apprentice Maris Brood, who had succumbed to corruption by the dark side after Starkiller murdered her master Shaak Ti on Felucia.
Senators Organa, Mon Mothma, and Garm Bel Iblis meet on Corellia to plan a rebellion against the Empire, but are interrupted when Darth Vader arrives and arrests them and Kota. Vader attacks Starkiller and reveals that he was never meant to overthrow the Emperor; from the beginning, he was the Emperor's tool to expose his enemies, and that Vader's plans to overthrow the Emperor did not include Starkiller. Surviving Vader's attack, Starkiller uses the Force to ascertain the senators' and Kota's location: the Death Star. Inside the space station, Starkiller duels Darth Vader and manages to defeat his former master. As the Emperor goads Starkiller into killing Vader, Kota attempts to fight the Emperor, but is incapacitated by the Emperor's Force lightning.
If the player chooses the light side, Starkiller fights and defeats Emperor Palpatine, but Kota prevents him from killing Palpatine in hatred. The Emperor renews his attack and Starkiller, whilst absorbing it, sacrifices himself by opening his body to the Force, while Kota and the senators escape on the Rogue Shadow. The Emperor and Vader look over Starkiller's corpse, concerned that he has become a martyr to inspire the newly formed Rebel Alliance. Senator Organa and the others agree to proceed with their rebellion and Leia decides to use Starkiller's family crest as the Rebellion's symbol. Outside, Juno talks to Kota, who tells her that among Starkiller's dark thoughts, Juno herself was one bright spot that he held onto right until his death. This is the ending depicted in the novelization and this was the canonical ending until Lucasfilm rebranded the expanded universe into "Star Wars Legends".
If the player chooses the dark side, Starkiller kills Darth Vader. The Emperor then offers to let Starkiller take Vader's place as his apprentice if Starkiller proves himself by killing Kota. Starkiller instead attacks the Emperor, who effortlessly crushes Starkiller with the Rogue Shadow, severely injuring him and killing Kota, Juno, and the Senators. The story ends with Starkiller's broken body being grafted with armor so he can serve as the Emperor's assassin, though Palpatine assures Starkiller that he, like Vader, will be cast aside when he finds a new apprentice. The Infinities expansion content builds on this ending.