You show up at the old "Back to the Future... The Ride" building, to find the building painted blue, a giant Krusty the Clown head at the entrance, and KRUSTYLAND lit up in big letters. It can only be one thing- The Simpsons Ride!Visitors show up and get in line, prepared to ride Krusty's new rollercoaster at Krustyland- the upsy-downsy, spins-aroundsey, teen-operated thrilltacular! TVs show that all of Springfield is lined up for the ride too, including the Simpson family. However, Chief Wiggum warns that Sideshow Bob has broken out of prison and was spotted near Krustyland.Once inside the building inside the carnival midway, Krusty begins to choose a family to be the first to ride the new rollercoaster. He picks the Simpsons family, and you enter the waiting room to see the Simpsons about to get in the ride vehicle, when Sideshow Bob shows up and locks the Simpsons in, revealing he took over the whole park, and he will destroy the Simpsons and us. We then go to our ride vehicle- a creepy-looking Krusty Kar.Then the ride begins. Our car is lifted up on to a rollercoaster track by Sideshow Bob, who stands on the left on a platform, with the Simpsons car on the track in front of us. We hit their car, and go down the coaster, when Sideshow Bob unleashes his wrecking ball, hitting Homer and sending him flying, and breaking the track. We go flying off the track and land on another part of the track with Homer and the ball. The ball rolls down and hits Homer again, when Sideshow Bob blows up the coaster. Our car and the Simpson family go flying around the park.
We crash into the "Happy Little Elves in Panda Land", a kiddie ride, with Bart and Lisa. We think we're safe when Sideshow Bob breaks in controlling a giant animatronic panda, and he smashes our car with Bart and Lisa, kidnapping them, and sending us flying backwards.
We land in "Captain Dinosaur's Pirate Rip-Off", a parody of Pirates of the Caribbean, with Homer and Marge in a boat. We go down a waterfall with them and go into a complete parody of the village scene, only filled with animatronic pirate dinosaurs drinking beer. Sideshow Bob appears on a waterfall and tells Homer to avoid temptation. Homer ignores this and tries to grab the beer being held by the animatronics, which backfires, and the whole attraction falls apart and goes on fire. We speed through the rest of the breaking ride with Homer and Marge and crash into the large tank of "Krusty's Wet and Smokey Stunt Show."
Sideshow Bob is at the tank strangling Bart when Homer and Marge rush over via boat and save him. Lisa jumps up out of the water riding a whale, and she lassos our car. Our car, Lisa on the whale, and Homer, Marge, and Bart in their boat rush to the exit of the giant tank, which Sideshow Bob blows up. We all go sent flying backwards through the stadium, going upside-down and all crashing into the bleachers.
Sideshow Bob corners us with his giant panda robot, when a giant nuclear-radiated Maggie breaks in and grabs Sideshow Bob and breaks his robot. Sideshow Bob hits us, and our car falls down a large hole into Hell, complete with Satan and fire. Professor Frink flies down in his flying machine and lassos us, and pulls us out.
We're pulled by Frink back into Springfield, where Sideshow Bob has taken giant-Maggie's pacifier, telling her he'll give it back if she destroys the city. We end up flying on a wild ride through Springfield, with the Simpsons below us on firetruck. We fly past the Kwik-E-Mart, Lard Lad's Donuts, the giant SPRINGFIELD sign, and into townsquare, where giant Maggie pulls us into her mouth and sucks on us. She spits us out and we land inbetween two telephone wires, which shoot us forward and into the Simpsons house, where we see the family sitting on their couch, finally. However, Kang and Kodos appear flying next to them, revealing they are actually strapped to Krusty's Death Drop ride. We drop from space through the skies, past multiple characters, back to the entrance of Krustyland.
Sideshow Bob appears again, cornering us again, when giant Maggie appears yet again, crushing Bob with the giant Krusty head at the entrance.Our cars lower down into the room, which appears on fire. Krusty appears on the small car TV screen, confused to as what happened, ending the ride.