The movie opens with college girl Audra Buckman (Galadriel Stineman) on her way to a Halloween party in her yellow VW when it runs out of gas. She calls for help and we hear the radio dispatcher sending a tow truck her way.A tow truck pulls up behind Audra's car and JYD (Innis Casey) gets out. He tells her he doesn't have any gas, but he will tow her to the next service station where she can get some. After they leave we see another tow truck pull up. The driver is confused as the car he was looking for isn't there and calls the dispatcher to tell her that the caller must have gotten help from a good Samaritan and left.Audra, up in the tow trucks passenger seat, becomes suspicious when JYD passes a service station without stopping. She tries to call for help on her cell phone, but he snatches in from her, throws it out the window and hits her, knocking her out.He takes her to his wrecking yard: a large property sealed off with a high fence topped with barbed wire. She gets thrown down a shaft in the base of an old silo on the property and JYD uses some heavy equipment to dig a big hole and bury her car.The yard is guarded by a large, mean dog who is loyal only to JYD. We see JYD retreat to his office. Behind that is his living quarters, and behind that a room with a stainless steel butchering table. We see him chopping up some meat of undetermined origin. Some of it he feeds to his dog.Audra awakes to find herself lying on the floor of what appears to be a trailer. When she attempts to look out the windows she realizes that it is buried underground with the only apparent exit the shaft through the roof. The space has some kitchen chairs, a table bolted to the ground, and a mattress with box spring. There is also a toilet and shower, along with a shelf with a hotplate for cooking.Audra finally decides to use the shower. JYD has a secret camera wired above the showerhead so he can watch her. While she is busy, he lowers a ladder down the shaft. He takes her clothes and replaces them with skimpy daisy duke shorts and matching shirt.Their routine becomes clear. He tosses a bag of meat down to her, expecting her to cook it for their dinner. He only enters the chamber to eat the meal she has prepared and rape her. While they are eating dinner once, Audra complains that the meat smells funny and asks what it is. JYD replied that it is what is left of Miss September and that she "looked better than she tastes." Audra suddenly realizes that she is Miss October and that JYD plans to butcher her on the last day of the month.The police, including the local Sheriff (Brad Dourif) start searching for Audra. News reports state that this is one of a series of missing girls in the area. JYD leaves a newspaper with a story on the kidnapping for Audra to read.Meanwhile FBI agent Samantha Deatherage (Vivica A. Fox) enters her superiors office. Her boss Hellerman (John Kapelos) asks her if she is ready to go back to work. She was relieved of duty for a while to recover after she tracked the rapists of an 11 year-old girl down and killed them in a gun battle. Deatherage insists she is ready to start a new case. Hellerman gives her Audra Buckman's file.Deatherage starts the search for the girl by going to a local red-neck bar and flashing Audra's photo around to some uncooperative patrons. JYD spots her there and when she leaves he follows her back to her motel. After she goes into her room he tampers with her car.The next morning her car doesn't start and while she is looking under the hood, JYD pulls up in his tow truck to help. He tells her the problem is a bad coil and if he tows her car back to his wrecking yard he can replace it. Not wanting to wait for roadside assistance, she agrees.When JYD gets out of the truck for a moment, Deatherage takes the opportunity to examine something she noticed under the floor mat: It's an ear ring identical to the one Audra was wearing went she went missing. Deatherage, now knowing that JYD is the kidnapper, allows him to take her back to his wrecking yard.When they get there she pulls out her gun and demands he take her to the missing girl. He leads her into the silo where she is attacked by his dog. This allows him to knock her out, take her gun, and throw her down the shaft.We get a glimpse of JYDs warped mind that night when he has dinner in his living quarters. He sits at the table and argues with his dead parents who he has apparently killed some time in the past. He keeps their bodies frozen in an old refrigerated truck.Deatherage awakes and explains to Audra that she is an FBI agent here to rescue her. This seems of little comfort to Audra as Deatherage is also a prisoner herself. Even worse Audra realizes that Deatherage is meant to be her replacement and her month is almost up.The Sheriff arrives at JYD's wrecking yard looking for Deatherage who has failed to check in with her boss. He notes that the motel owner saw JYD take Deatherage and her car away. JYD replied that he fixed the coil on her car and then she left. The Sheriff takes a look around the wrecking yard, but finding nothing, leaves.JYD climbs down the ladder to rape Audra, but is attacked by Deatherage. He is able to get the upper hand and knocks her out. Thereafter he is wary of her and uses a pair of handcuffs to secure her to the table while he rapes Audra. While he is distracted by raping the her, Audra reaches into his back pocket and is able to steal the handcuff key from him.The next time he enters to rape Audra he tells her that this his final ride on her before butchers her. He doesn't realize that Deatherages handcuffs are open, and the women are able to attack him. He gets a stab wound from a sharp piece of glass in his thigh, but is able to retreat up the ladder. It is clear, however, that getting Audra out of the buried trailer and up to the butchering room is going to be a problem.The women prepare a defense by stripping the mattress down to the springs and wiring it to a wall socket. They also build makeshift spears out of wood from the box spring and tipped with broken shards of glass.JYD makes his own preparations. He dons a pair of night vision goggles and enters the trailer by a secret tunnel that comes up through a trap door in the floor. He is able to steal Audra away in the dark, through the tunnel leaving Deatherage alone in the trailer.JYD takes Audra up to the butchering room and straps her down to the table. She seems to have accepted her fate asking if it will hurt much. He replies that it will only hurt until he's drained the blood from her body, something he needs to do some so it won't spoil the meat.In the trailer Deatherage goes on the offensive by using the chairs and what is left of the box spring to climb up to the start of the shaft. She then wedges here body between the walls to climbs up and out of the silo. She has brought a makeshift spear with her to deal with the dog.JYD is just about to start on Audra, when he hears the dog yelp. Taking a gun he heads out into the yard to find the dog injured. Realizing that Deatherage has escaped he heads back to the butchering table and finds Audra gone. He and the dog then start hunting the women down.Meanwhile the Sheriff is out fishing. Looking at his hook, he finds it reminds him of a hook he saw in JYD quarters. It suddenly occurs to him that the high fence and barbed wire around the yard isn't meant to keep to people out, but to keep somebody inside. He hops in his car and heads to the wrecking yard.The women, unable to escape the yard, hide in the upturned scoop of a backhoe. When JYD passes below Deatherage jumps him. The gun gets knocked away and they fight. Finally Deatherage gets the gun as JYD runs away. She shoots at him hiding behind a wrecked car, which explodes. He emerges covered in flames and falls to the ground.The dog chases Deatherage and Audra to the front gate. He is about to catch them climbing the fence when the Sheriff arrives and shoots the dog.The case is closed and Deatherage and Audra go back to their normal lives.In a final scene we see a young women in a car on the side of the road. A tow truck pulls up behind her and the driver gets out. We can't see his face. She remarks to him, "Wow, that was fast." He tells her that he will tow her to his yard and fix her car. She agrees and the movie ends.