After showing 8 mm footage of a handcuffed woman being stabbed to death, the film switches to six friends who are driving through a desolate area when they find themselves being harassed by a truck driven by a man in a rabbit costume who refuses to communicate with, or show himself to, the travellers. He forces them to pull over and parks behind them. After an indeterminate length of time the costumed man drives away and kills a woman he was holding captive by ripping her in half with chains attached to his truck.
Eventually, the Bunnyman returns and causes the group's car to crash, killing Jack a short while later when he rams the vehicle from behind as Jack is working underneath it. The remaining five proceed to travel on foot, encountering a deranged hillbilly, a woman called Melissa and a man who advises them to seek shelter in a supposedly abandoned cabin nearby, saying they will return for them after a trip to the hospital. In reality, the two are disposing of the bodies of some of the Bunnyman's victims. En route to the cabin, two of the quintet spot the Bunnyman butchering bodies and he kills one of them with a chainsaw.
Chased to the cabin which belongs to the Bunnyman, the group loses two more members when Mike is killed with a chainsaw, and Tiffany is captured and tortured to death by the Bunnyman and his demented, hunchbacked accomplice, Pops. After the Bunnyman dismembers Tiffany's body and sits down to eat her flesh with Pops and Melissa, the remaining two travellers, Rachel and John, are captured while trying to get Melissa's car keys. As Melissa prepares to murder a bound Rachel, John manages to free himself from his restraints, kills Melissa and takes her keys and car.
As John and Rachel flee they are chased by the Bunnyman's truck. Concocting a plan the two pull over and John exits the vehicle carrying an unmoving Rachel who he offers to the Bunnyman. The Bunnyman hesitantly takes Rachel and places her in the cab of his truck, where she springs to life and stabs him in the neck with a pair of scissors, wounding him, and she kicks him out onto the road and driving away after John gets into the truck. As Rachel laments "We're going to need a lot of therapy" the wounded Bunnyman is shown walking off into the sunset. The credits then roll, alongside more 8mm footage depicting what appears to be the young Bunnyman and his family.