Robot Chicken: Star Wars Episode II is a 22-minute-long special episode of Robot Chicken
=== List of Skits in the Broadcast Version ===
Boba Fett kills many Ewoks using his laser blasters, lightsabers, and a rocket from his backpack before Princess Leia arrives, does a striptease which leaves her in her slave outfit and then proceeds to make him grope her. In the end, all is revealed as a nerd group fiction.
Opening sequence, redone from the previous special Robot Chicken: Star Wars, based on the end sequences of Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith but modified from the original (the condition of the Death Star in the background is that of the half-constructed version seen in Return of the Jedi). The Mad Scientist (as Emperor Palpatine) saves the Robot Chicken (as Darth Vader) from the volcanic planet Mustafar and rebuilds it before forcing it to watch the show.
Palpatine goes to his barber for a haircut who eventually suggests the idea of hiring a bounty hunter to capture the crew of the Millennium Falcon instead of relying on Darth Vader.
Parody of the Geonosian arena scene from Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones, as an over-the-top commercial for a monster truck event.
Princess Leia scolds Luke Skywalker for missing Ben Kenobi, whom he met the day before, while her entire family and planet has been destroyed.
Gary the Stormtrooper brings his daughter to work, which includes the assault on Tantive IV during the opening sequence of Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope. Gary and his daughter are later on Tatooine, encountering Obi-Wan Kenobi in a parody of the "These Are Not The Droids You Are Looking For" scene where Gary shouts at his daughter when she tries to tell him the droids are the ones they're looking for, only to say that underneath the helmet he could not think with the temperatures being high.
The interrogator droid from the Death Star refuses to torture Leia. It becomes a parody of medical drama shows where "Dr. Ball" points out medical inadequacies from the movies.
A jingle for "Admiral Ackbar's Fish Sticks" is suggested and rejected. The band from the Mos Eisley Cantina, who has a member who wrote the jingle, are disappointed. One member suggests that it's better as an instrumental.
A stormtrooper mourns the loss of a fellow trooper killed by Princess Leia.
A mouse is shown piloting a "mouse droid" that is scared by Chewbacca.
Parody of the scene from Revenge of the Sith where Anakin Skywalker kills the younglings in the Jedi temple. Anakin deals with the trauma of killing children by imagining he's on planet Naboo and the children are sunflowers — which later gives Padmé Amidala a major shock when he brings her a bouquet of "fresh cut sunflowers".
Two AT-ATs have a race during the Battle of Hoth.
In perhaps the only oceanic part of Tatooine, a Krayt Dragon gives a dramatic speech about how planets made up of only one topographic feature (like Hoth [ice], Endor's Forest Moon [forest], and Mustafar [lava]) are ridiculous, and departs to explore the rest of the planet. A week later, C-3PO walks past the dragon's skeleton in the desert.
Continuation of the third scene where Palpatine goes to his barber. In a parody of the "What is thy bidding" scene from The Empire Strikes Back, Palpatine yells at Darth Vader and then puts an ad out for bounty hunters. Darth Vader is kneeling the entire time, and Palpatine smugly tells him "I bet that knee's starting to hurt..."
Parody of Geico commercials using Jar Jar Binks to explain car insurance. At the end, the customer comments that her explanation makes more sense than Jar Jar's babblings.
Continuation from the fourteenth scene, parodying the bounty hunter scene from The Empire Strikes Back.
Lando Calrissian comments on the name of Boba Fett's ship, Slave I.
Recycled skit from "Moesha Poppins" where Han Solo, Chewbacca and Princess Leia have an awkward meal with Boba Fett, Lando Calrissian and Darth Vader.
Ad for Bob Goldstein, an attorney who specializes in suing Jedi and any cases involving missing limbs. Among his clients are Ponda Baba and Darth Maul.
Parody of a scene from The Empire Strikes Back, where Han Solo hears an unexpected confession from Chewbacca before he is frozen in carbonite.
Parody of the scene from The Empire Strikes Back where Darth Vader says the line, "I have altered the deal, pray that I do not alter it further", in which he continually alters the deal as soon as Lando Calrissian voices a complaint, to make him do such embarrassing things as wear clown shoes and a dress, refer to himself as Mary, and ride a unicycle everywhere he goes.
Parody of the scene from The Empire Strikes Back where Luke Skywalker refuses Darth Vader's offer to join the dark side; in this version, Luke imagines what a father/son relationship with Darth Vader would be like, complete with fishing, learning to ride a bike, teaching Luke how to shave, and a father/son break dance contest against Jango and Boba Fett. He accepts the offer but trips on his way back to Vader and falls anyway.
A couple looking to buy an apartment in Cloud City. Their interaction with the apartment's "features" cause Luke's further perils after his fall in the previous scene.
Mon Mothma orders the calamari at a restaurant, much to the annoyance of Admiral Ackbar.
The aftermath of Boba Fett being swallowed by the Sarlacc. In order to preserve his reputation, he withholds the truth from a Weequay captive that his dropping in here was the result of an accident, claiming that he defeated 67 Jedi and killed Han Solo plus Luke Skywalker before jumping into the Sarlacc.
Palpatine has an awful day. First, the Death Star's spaceport loses his luggage, forcing him to buy a novelty T-shirt at a gift shop; then, it turns out that his throne is directly beneath an air vent and lastly, a frustrated Darth Vader throws him down a reactor vent.
End credits - Chickens sing the Star Wars' theme.
After the credits - Two Imperial Officers discuss the state of the Empire after the second Death Star's destruction. Even though they still have a vast arsenal of weapons and starships and many legions of stormtroopers, the Rebels still win because they destroyed the Death Star and killed Palpatine at the same time. The Imperial Officers then decide to go get massages.
=== List of Skits in the Extended Version ===
Parody of the introductionary opening crawl from A New Hope, where the narrative writing quickly becomes much too informal.
Anakin returns to the Lars homestead with the body of his mother. Padme, Owen and Beru start laughing when they call him "Little Orphan Ani." In a follow-up skit, just before Owen and Beru are killed in A New Hope, the stormtrooper says they may now laugh at the joke before they are burned alive.
A Tusken Raider flees a bar when the bartender comes up behind him. Obi-Wan tells the bartender that they startle easily, but will return in greater numbers (much to the barman's pleasure).
R2-D2's shutting down of the Death Star's garbage compactors poses a problem to Darth Vader when he attempts to get rid of his dinner leftovers via the kitchen sink.
When Princess Leia names Dantooine as the main Rebel base to Governor Tarkin, Vader immediately orders the Death Star crew to fire upon the planet, forgetting in his excitement that Tarkin's house is located there.
During the honoring ceremony following the first Death Star's destruction, Han and Luke react with indignation at the less-than-flattering inscriptions on their medals.
When Han and Luke return to the Rebel base on Hoth, two Tauntauns are outraged to hear about the fate of their fellow Maurice.
When the Rebel fighter fleet masses for an attack, a new prototype fighter - a "Q-Wing" - goes completely out of control due to the inconvenient placement of its main thruster.
General Grievous, working as a car washer, is forced to make use of his additional arms to get the job done.
Admiral Ackbar, participating in a quizz show, fails to find the very word which would become part of his most famous quote.
A scene casting a view on Greedo's abandoned home while the rest of the galaxy is as yet unaware of his death.
During his training on Dagobah, Luke's acrobatic achievements make Yoda - whom he carries on his back - go spectacularly sick.
Zuckuss and 4-LOM respond to Vader's ad for able bounty hunters.
Before joining the bounty hunter meeting, Dengar asks Bossk what recent bounty hunter adventures he had. Bossk thinks back to him fighting some adversaries in a similar fashion to the opening scene of Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom; but then replies, "Nothing much".
Bib Fortuna blow-dries his head-tails.
After the Millenium Falcon evades the Imperial Fleet by floating amongst a Star Destroyer's garbage, Dengar prepares to pursue them, boasting about his "sneaky" toilet seat-shaped ship before it is smashed to pieces by a stray asteroid.
When the Ugnaughts of Bespin's junk disposal unit taunt Chewbacca by throwing around C-3PO's head, one of them - a failed football player - once again misses his chance to keep a hold on the prize.
An extension to the "Moesha Poppins" skit, in which IG-88 waits in the wrong dining room to capture Han, Leia and Chewbacca.
During the clone troopers' assault on the Geonosian arena, one of the soldiers complains about Yoda's peculiar speech pattern.
A mock commercial about large-sized "Little Tauntaun" dolls.
A parody of a final scene from Revenge of the Sith, where Palpatine is depicted as an innocent-appearing but naughty child who taunts his pet cat, "Mr. Whiskers" (Vader), over the loss of his "squeaky toy".
When Lando Calrissian and Chewbacca prepare to depart for their quest for Han, Chewbacca complains unintelligibly about Lando acting as Han's replacement - right down to his clothes and aftershave.
When Obi-Kenobi's force ghost relays Darth Vader's full story to Luke, he and Yoda also explain about the technicalities of truth within the film trilogy's continuity in the form of a musical performance.
Parody of the scene from Return of the Jedi where Luke removes Darth Vader's helmet; as the Death Star crew evacuates, one of the crew members pauses to take a picture of Vader with a camera phone.
The Ewoks are killed by falling debris from the destruction of the second Death Star.
A post-credit scene showcasing numerous outtakes from the Boba Fett in the Pit of Sarlacc sequence, where Fett is constantly spoiling his performance.