=== Emergency episode ===
The full moon looms high one windy night. Jay (JC De Vera) and Dennis (Janus Del Prado) were traveling along a dark highway. They accidentally ran over a pregnant woman (Mylene Dizon) crossing the street. They saw that she had a miscarriage, so they immediately carried her to the hospital.
The mysterious woman was not the only patient that night. There was a gay named Julius (John Lapus) who was complaining about fever, an English-speaking man named Eric (Eri Neeman) who keeps complaining about the hospital's defective apparatus and a "tortured" and badly injured man who immediately recognized the woman. He attempted to swipe her with his whip, but it only lead to his death.
Hospital radiologist Dr. Sarah (Roxanne Guinoo) examines the woman using an ultrasound. During the examination, a very eerie sound wailed through the air. They discovered that the infant died while inside the woman's womb. Meanwhile, Sarah went to the bathroom where it was revealed that she was pregnant.
The woman then was transferred into an isolated room. The hospital's administrator, Dr. Ignacio (Perry Escano) became skeptical about the true nature of the woman. They speculated that she might not be human, He decided to promote this idea, a thing that enraged Sarah.
Back into the isolated room, the woman had a dream of a man beating her with a magic whip: it was the same man who attempted her life as mentioned earlier. She gave a very shrill cry; a scream that gave evidence she was not human but an aswang (vampire or flesh eating witch in Filipino mythology). Together with her husband (Wendell Ramos), who was also a witch. Along with their race, they seek vengeance on humans, ready to invade the hospital. The hospital tenants brace themselves for the incoming attack. Dr. Ignacio is the first to be killed by the aswang husband after terminating Dennis.
Jay became aware of the events happening outside. He, Sarah and the others immediately evacuate to the upper floors as the witch relentlessly break in, killing patients including Julius and Erick. The others hid in the stock room while Jay rescues a young girl from the witch's wife.
Dennis, who had been separated from the team, discovered that dextrose can kill the witches but was proven wrong: holy water can. They formulated a plan: Jay and Sarah will ward the beasts off while hospital chaplain, Father Miguel (Cris Daluz) and Dennis will bless the water tank with holy water.
Sarah and Jay were trapped in a locked corridor, with the beasts in pursuit. They use a defibrillator to electrify the beasts. At that moment, Father Miguel and Dennis reached the tank, and Sarah jokingly revealed to Jay that she was pregnant.
At this point, The aswangs morphs into more powerful creatures and launch their final attack. After Father Miguel blesses the water in the tank turning it into holy water. While Jay is being attacked by the creatures Sarah then uses a fire-lit boom to activate the fire sprinklers/fire sprinkler system to destroy the aswangs. At the end of the story, it is revealed that the Baby aswang was on the hospital's rooftop, thus avoiding getting wet by the holy water. It opens its eyes and uses the final scare of the episode.
=== Class Picture episode ===
==== Plot ====
The episode opens with a terrified young woman running through the halls of San Selino College at night. She sees terrifying things like a dead student wearing an old uniform of San Selino. When she finds herself clad in the same uniform, she becomes more terrified when she is scourged by an unseen force while a diabolical female laughter is heard. The young woman dies after being stoned and having her forehead sliced by a razor being held by an unknown female hand with a sleeve of a nun's habit.
Ten college students of San Selino College spend their weekend in the campus. Joy (Kim Chiu), Lui (Gerald Anderson) and their 8 friends were assigned to prepare an exhibit in exchange for lifting the suspension of their organization. The exhibit was also meant to be part of their graduation. On their first night, one of them, Nicole (Niña Jose), presumably the young woman at the opening scene, disappeared without a trace.
Joy wakes up from a nightmare and tells her story. Before midnight, she picked a mysterious class picture named "Rubi 1898" in the school's storage room. The picture shows an all-female class with a nun seated at the center. The second incident of this picture involved Blue (Eda Nolan) and Pinky (IC Mendoza) when they dumped the trash. Blue took a look at the nun in the picture wherein the nun smiled. Suddenly, she was unknowingly captured by the same unknown force and she too, vanished. The spirit then kills Blue by apparently slicing her arms when she was stuck to a chair in a classroom.
Joy discovers sinister writing in a classroom building window. The words are written in blood saying "No Me Mires Fijamente". When the group goes to the library, they try to translate the Spanish blood graffiti only to fail at first. Scanning the yearbooks for information, they find "Rubi" was a class section supervised by Sister Maria Belonia (Jean Garcia). They also discover a similar class picture of the same section with a male teacher standing at the middle in place of Belonia, revealed as Virgilio, who became the substitute adviser during Belonia's absence. In the same yearbook, Joy discovers three students, namely Crisel, Sabel, and Adela, who were the missing students of the "Rubi" section.
The group finally discovers from the computer translator that the Spanish words mean "Do Not Stare". Little that the group knows that the "Rubi" picture Joy picked up is a possessed photograph and that the bloody writing was a warning saying that anyone who looks at the nun at the cursed picture will disappear and die.
The dark answer is revealed at this point; Belonia must seek three students from them. Lui looks at the picture and spots their group mates in the photo; Nicole, who found the picture in the first place and Blue, who scanned a look at it. Joy reveals that she is the next to be taken for accidentally looking at the nun before she is abducted by the same unknown force. Also at this point, it is revealed that Nicole was the young woman in the opening scene and that the spirit is the demented soul of Sr. Maria Belonia herself, revealed to be an evil nun teacher who haunts the school in return for a terrible oath done in the past; her responsibility of the death of the institution's students in the Spanish Colonial Period.
Joy runs through the school's hallways in order to escape the wrath of Sis. Belonia. She sees the three missing students in a room being scourged by Belonia and once she is gone, Joy frees the trio. At this point, it was revealed that Sister Belonia tortures students either for being disobedient or small mistakes. Crisel, Sabel, and Adela, in retaliation, wrote a letter to their headmistress nun, Mother Agnes, for Belonia's actions. Mother Agnes, upon learning this, reprimands Sis. Belonia for her brutal and torturous manners of disciplining the three girls and her class. When the day for the class picture arrived, the headmistress realizes that their class have the said three girls missing. She then suspends Belonia from San Selino (this later explains why she utters the words often) and tells her that she cannot come back until the three students are found. In return, she committed suicide but not before swearing that she will complete her class' picture, (which explains her vengeance to take three students). Later on, she finds herself now clad in the Hispanic period San Selino school uniform.
Lui and Greg (Prince Stefan) chased Joy but arrive too late during the final confrontation at the school's theater hall/auditorium as the doors were tightly shut and locked by the angered spirit of Belonia, who was ready to take Joy. Lui tried to tear the picture but it proved impervious as mere physical force cannot destroy a curse made by a spirit.
Realizing this, Joy asks the help from the spirits of three missing students. Surprisingly, the ghosts of Crisel, Sabel and Adela reappeared too and tore the picture apart. A screaming Belonia vanishes from the living world and is placed into the depths of hell. The ghostly trio peacefully then depart for heaven. With all the terror ended, the group finished and inaugurated the exhibit, but were suspended for unexplainable loss of their classmates, a fact that made their school status parallel to Sis. Belonia, Crisel, Sabel, and Adela.
=== Nieves episode ===
==== Plot ====
Nieves (Nye-ves) (Marian Rivera) is a happy-go-lucky but a fierce Engkantolarya (Engkanto slayer). While on a walk at the forest one day, she was pursued by an engkanto, Hagnaya (Marco Alcaraz). Saying that she has got no crush on him, she vanished the poor engkanto away.
It was revealed that Nieves lives with her husband Adonis (Mike Nacua), a handsome man, and an engkanto heartthrob. But one stormy night, the young man was intentionally kidnapped by an engkanto. With this, Nieves formally resigned her job.
Meanwhile, a family from Manila spends their vacation in a new house bounded by a large tree. Celso (Mart Escudero), however, was hypnotized and was forced to cut the tree thus creating a new problem for his family.
Junie (Robert Villar), Celso's little nephew, went to see Nieves along with a young girl named Kaysee (Jennica Garcia) after gaining information from Aling Tasing (Malou Crisologo). However, Nieves reluctantly welcomes them, but after seeing a begging Junie, she offered them to be trained as soon as possible.
Kaysee and Junie trekked back to Nieves's home when they were welcomed by the townsfolk, complaining about the new attacks of dwarves, elves, kapres, etc. The engkantolarya, still reluctant to resume her job, finally agreed to continue her post.
Junie's parents (Luis Alandy and Desiree Del Valle) seek help from Nieves when something happened wrong again: Celso fell ill once more, this time, his illness worsened. Nieves explained why the young man fell ill: he cut the tree in the backyard, which was the home of Hagnaya and his wife, Wai Lana (Iwa Moto). It was also revealed that the voice that entranced Celso was the engkanto queen herself,Acacia (Diana Zubiri).
Nieves negotiated with Wai Lana and Hagnaya personally, explaining that Celso did not mean to cut down the tree and offered them that she will help find their new home. On the contrary, Kaysee, who went with a walk with Junie one day, revealed herself as Acacia.
Sensing danger, Junie ran to Nieves and told her what he saw. The engkanto slayer was given a special suit blessed by the good engkantos. As they speak, Acacia ensnared the townsfolk to her lair.
Nieves confronted Acacia while Junie healed the townsfolk from entrancement. As the two ladies fight, it was revealed that Acacia had Adonis held hostage in a hill. In anger, the engkanto queen tortured the engkantolarya mercilessly. Enraged, the young slayer threw a repellent in the air while Junie hit it with his sling-stone, killing Acacia in the process.
With Adonis back, Nieves and the townsfolk rejoiced.