Following Jin Kazama's victory against his great-grandfather, Jinpachi Mishima, in the previous tournament, he is now the new head of Mishima Zaibatsu. Mirroring his father's previous leadership, Jin uses the company's resources to become a global superpower, by severing its national ties and openly declaring war against all nations over the following year. This action plunges the world into an extremely chaotic spiral, with a huge-scale civil war erupting around the globe and even amidst the space colonies orbiting the planet. Meanwhile, Jin's father, Kazuya Mishima has risen as the leader of the Mishima Zaibatsu's rival company, G Corporation, after murdering the company's high officials for his attempted murder beforehand. Using G Corporation's vast resources, Kazuya becomes the only one who can only oppose Jin. In order to remove Jin from his own plans to take over the world, Kazuya places a bounty on his son's head. In retaliation, Jin announces the sixth King of Iron Fist Tournament in order to lure Kazuya out, at the same time sparking many people into entering the tournament to defeat him.
As the war continues to erupt, the field leader of Mishima Zaibatsu's Tekken Force, Lars Alexandersson, has rebelled from the army alongside several of his soldiers. However, Lars is rendered amnesiac during an attack and spends some time recovering his memories. Accompanied by an android, Alisa Bosconovitch, Lars ventures throughout the world, avoiding the Mishima Zaibatsu's manhunt on him while also trying to recover his memories. It is eventually revealed that Lars is actually the illegitimate son of Heihachi Mishima, who has gone into hiding ever since his supposed demise since the last tournament and has been trying to take the Mishima Zaibatsu from Jin's hands.
After coming into contact with several allies, including his adoptive brother, Lee Chaolan, Lars confronts the G Corporation and Mishima Zaibatsu's headquarters, where Jin in the latter's visit reveals that he had sent Alisa to spy on Lars' actions all along. Disabling Alisa's safe mode, Lars is forced to confront his former teammate, who leaves with Jin to Egypt. Helped by one of his allies, Raven, Lars goes to Egypt, meeting an astrologist, Zafina, who provides them with information about the clash of two evil stars that will awake an ancient evil who will destroy the world. This evil, Azazel, is responsible for giving birth to the Devil Gene and is currently bounded in an ancient temple. Lars confronts Kazuya in front of the door leading to Azazel's chamber and defeats him; Kazuya subsequently retreats. Lars and Raven enter the chamber and confront Azazel. They seemingly defeat Azazel. Outside the temple, Lars confronts Jin, who admits that his reason for launching the war was to awaken Azazel and destroy him, which would free the world from a greater threat than the war itself, as well as free himself from the Devil Gene, as he can only have a physical form through negative energies of the world. Revealing that Azazel can only be destroyed by someone with the Devil Gene, Jin confronts and punches the revived Azazel, sending them both plummeting to the desert.
Lars is reunited with a now-safe Alisa, who has been fixed by Lee since her previous destruction and goes on another mission, while Raven unearths Jin's body in the desert, noting that he still has the Devil mark on his arm.