Felix O'Neil (Cameron Dallas) is a mischievous prankster who believes that school is a waste of time. He gets expelled after receiving his third suspension from the principal, Truman.
For several days, Felix covers up his expulsion with the help of his best friend, Danny. A week before report cards are supposed to be mailed, Felix makes a deal with his ex-girlfriend, Vanessa, to help her win a class election against her rival, Stacy. In exchange, Vanessa—Mr. Truman's T.A.—will print a straight A report card for Felix. Felix and Danny hack Stacy's computer and learn that she is a notorious cyber bully, Roxy. Felix is able to get into the school and expose Stacy.
That night, Felix arrives home and finds his report card in the mail; but Vanessa lied and gave him F's. Felix barely keeps his parents from finding out; in retaliation, he ruins the school play Vanessa stars in. After escaping from Truman, he is able to lie to his parents and convince Danny to help him break into school to fix his grades. Truman however, catches him in the act and calls the police who arrest Felix.
Felix's brother Ben—who broke out of his mountain academy by shipping himself out to their house—is able to bail Felix out. When they get home, their mom, pressures Felix about the report card, and forces Felix to convince Danny to give it to him. His parents are shocked, and his mom schedules a conference with his chemistry teacher. Felix hires the school janitor to pose as his chemistry teacher, who meets with Felix at his house. Ben, shocked, accidentally knocks him out. Felix, having no other choice goes with his mom to the meeting. Ben attempts to stop the meeting but fails. Felix's history teacher is about to tell about Felix's expulsion when Ben knocks him out. His mom finds Ben in the hallway, and even though Felix denies knowledge of it, his mom grounds him.
Ben is sent back to the academy, but not before planning his next escape; Felix's mom is doing everything to meet with Truman about Felix. A delivery pizza girl, Katie, convinces him to find a way to get Truman to re-enroll him. After getting into the school, they see Truman late at night doing something on his computer. Deducing something is suspicious, Felix convinces Danny to bug his computer and learns Truman is a gambling addict who steals school money to support his addiction. Felix blackmails Truman to re-enroll him. Vanessa, disapproves of this and helps Truman, who steals back the evidence of his addiction.
After Felix and Danny realize the evidence is missing, they head to the school where Truman gloats about beating Felix. Danny, however, steals Truman's laptop which has clear evidence of his activity. Felix's mom arrives, and Truman lies about Felix, stating he is an exemplary student and that his "Straight A" report card was not faked. Felix's mom's suspicions are relieved.
Felix is re-enrolled and wins Katie's affection. Although he still does not understand the importance of school, he works harder and earns better grades.