Captain Frank Tate leads a four-member SWAT team consisting of Tony Hunt, Jannard and Blanco. They manage to stop a shop robbery and save the hostages, but inflicting great property damage. Their superior gets angry and orders them to go through training, which they do not take seriously.
Ilya Kalashnikova and Demetrius, two Russian mafia members, bring a captive named Kenny to a warehouse outside the city. They demand Kenny to recover the “item” he has hidden there. Lampone and Storato, members of the Italian mafia, arrive and start searching. The two parties intercept each other. Tate’s team arrives and starts training with unreal bullets without knowing about the current events at the warehouse. The two parties hide from the SWAT team; but the tension rises. The SWAT team hears it and Blanco goes to check it, being fatally shot. Tate and his team hears it. The Russians and the Italians realize that the SWAT team does not have real bullets. They form a fragile temporary alliance to kill the rest of SWAT. A shootout starts and the SWAT team escapes to the upper level, locking the door behind. It is revealed that Demetrius stole the item from Lampone before Kenny stole it from the former. Kenny reveals that the item is hidden in a sector that is behind the locked door. Demetrius calls for backup. SWAT team realize that they need to return to their truck to obtain the necessary tools including real ammunition and the radio to call for reinforcement. Kalashnikova and Storato bring the truck inside the warehouse. Members of the Russian mafia, headed by a man named Vladimir, arrive. Vladimir decides to attack the upper floor from outside windows. Lampone secretly tells Storato that he has called his own operatives in order to secure the item for themselves. Vladimir’men enter the floor and start searching for the SWAT team. Tate manages to reach the truck secretly and finds the radio damaged. He frees Kenny while Hunt fights off Vladimir’s men. Tate and Kenny return to the stairs by the door and lock it again. Jannard engages in a duel with Vladimir, who overpowers her before Tate arrives and kills him. Members of the Italian mafia, headed by a man nemed Tagliaferro, arrive, making Demetrius and Kalashnikova nervous of the outcome. Kenny gives the case containing the item to Tate, who gets surprised to know what it is. Tagliaferro finds a way from the rooftop and opens the door to the others. Kenny shows the SWAT team a hidden tunnel leading outside the location. The SWAT team and Kenny enter the tunnel, which is found by Tagliaferro. Hunt hears a sound from behind and Tate returns to check it while the others continue. Lampone orders his men to return Kenny alive. Tate is knocked unconscious while Storato and his men capture the others and bring them to a nearby warehouse. Demetrius tries to have Tate killed; but the latter reveals that the item is hidden; and they need him to find it. Lampone finds the case empty. He shoots Kenny, apparently killing him. Hunt agrees to go and return the item if Lampone does not kill Jannard. Storato goes with him. Tagliaferro arrives with his men at the other warehouse and demands Demetrius, Kalashnikova and Tate to surrender in order to be killed without pain. The trio enters the truck and escapes, evading the Italians. In the tunnel, Hunt gets in a duel with Storato and kills him. He returns and captures Lampone. The trucks arrive at the other warehouse and a shootout starts. The Italians are overpowered; but they get the upper hand at last and capture the SWAT team and the Russians. Using a flashbang, the SWAT team manages to free itself. Tate kills Tagliaferro while Demetrius, Kalashnikova and Lampone are arrested.
The SWAT team’s superior admires them. Kenny, revealed to be alive and an undercover FBI agent, arrives and informs them that he was on a mission which was ruined by the team. He also implies that Lampone is another undercover agent. The team is ordered not to talk to anyone about FBI’s mission.