Edith Martin (Vera Farmiga) and her highly strung daughter Audrey (Taissa Farmiga), and George Hartman (Andy García) and his unmotivated son Conrad (Spencer Lofranco), arrive for a campus tour of the quaint Middleton College led by junior "dingleberry" Justin (Nicholas Braun). When Edith and George wander off, the two bond as they try to reunite with the tour. When they meet the group in the library, Edith and George embarrass their children.
Audrey accuses Edith of not supporting her decision to go to Middleton, and as revenge, Edith lies and says that she and George are taking an exclusive tour of the campus with the university's Dean. Audrey and Conrad are then left alone with the rest of the "cookie cutter" tour, while Edith and George play hooky. The two borrow some bikes to explore the campus. They climb to the top of the belltower, and sneak into an acting class. During an acting exercize, the two emotionally connect.
Meanwhile, Audrey tells Conrad that the reason she wants to attend Middleton is so she can be mentored by Middleton's acclaimed professor Roland Emerson (Tom Skerritt). Conrad says he's keeping his options open. At lunch, Audrey calls the Dean's assistant, and finds out that Edith was lying about the exclusive tour. She then bumps into George and demands to know where her mother is. He tells her that Edith went to the observatory, when she is really having lunch with George in the cafeteria. Edith and George discuss their relationship, unsure of what it is since they are both married.
Audrey and Conrad go to the observatory, finding it locked. In her anger, Audrey insults Conrad, saying he's peaked in life and it's all downhill for him; Conrad walks off. George and Edith then meet film student Daphne (Daniella García), who offers George her computer so he can help out a heart patient. Edith and George then get high with Daphne and her boyfriend Travis (Stephen Borrello), and discuss their relationships with their children.
Audrey and Conrad go to their respective meetings with professors. Audrey has tea with Emerson, while Conrad meets Boneyard Sims (Peter Riegert), who runs the campus' radio station. Audrey finds out that Emerson is going on a sabbatical, meaning he won't be able to be her advisor should she attend Middleton. Audrey reacts angrily, and Emerson warns her that she might've crossed the line from ambition into obsession. Conrad realizes his interest is in radio.
Edith and George go back to the belltower, where they spend an intimate moment. Conrad apologizes to Audrey for her bad day, and informs her that he could see himself going to Middleton; Audrey tells him she no longer wants to go there. As Edith and George head back to their cars, they emotionally part ways. The two then embrace their children and drive off. Edith tells Audrey that they're going to be okay, and George requests Conrad take the long way home.