=== 1926 ===
Elizabeth (Lady Gaga) goes to the Murder House to visit Dr. Charles Montgomery (Matt Ross), revealing that she is three weeks pregnant. Before the abortion, the nurse is skeptical about Elizabeth's abnormally low body temperature. During the process, the baby attacks the nurse assisting Charles with the operation. When Elizabeth wakes up, he announces she had a boy.
=== 2015 ===
In present day, John Lowe (Wes Bentley) is awoken from sleep by Holden (Lennon Henry), and he chases him reaching the underground swimming pool where he sees Alex Lowe (Chloë Sevigny) and Holden in a coffin, and faints upon seeing them. Liz Taylor (Denis O'Hare) and Tristan Duffy (Finn Wittrock) have sex and profess their love for each other, but they are wary about Elizabeth. In the meantime, Elizabeth and Will Drake (Cheyenne Jackson) also have sex, but stop due to Will's erectile dysfunction. She texts Tristan to join them, asking him to perform fellatio on Will. Alex drugs John and with Liz's help destroy the coffins. John awakes again and sees Alex on his bed. She explains that his "vision" of the pool filled with coffins is from Scarlett's (Shree Crooks) description. She follows him down to the now emptied sleeping chamber. Elizabeth visits her son in Room 33, before leaving for Paris.
Donovan (Matt Bomer) and Ramona Royale (Angela Bassett) visit the hotel. In the elevator, Ramona says her plans to kill the children, however, Donovan backs out and goes to the penthouse in hopes to see Elizabeth. Ramona is surprised that the coffins are gone and confronts Iris (Kathy Bates) about it. Ramona goes to Room 33 to kill the baby, named Bartholomew, but it attacks her and escapes. Upstairs, Donovan sees Agnetha and Vendela, the two Swedish tourists, who ask him the way out. Donovan explains that until they find a purpose, they will stay trapped. Meanwhile, somewhere in the hotel Justin's ghost appears outside a room yelling and demanding for kale.
Liz finds the Room 33's door opened and explains to Alex that they will get in trouble if Bartholomew is not found before Elizabeth gets back. In order to find purpose, Agnetha and Vendela kill a guest, but are disappointed. Alex finds them beside the dead man, and tell them to haunt John. The latest crime scene involving the Ten Commandments Killer is in a church where the televangelist pastor was stuffed with coins until he exploded. John learns that he had been fired and police already have someone in custody. He drinks in the corridor in the hotel, where Agnetha and Vendela approach him. During sex, they scare John, covering him with blood. John returns to the room with Liz, and sees the girls leaving. He also sees Miss Evers (Mare Winningham) and James March (Evan Peters). He readies himself to leave and while showering, Bartholomew hides in his suitcase.
At home, Scarlett is upset that Alex has not returned her calls for the last two days, and questions why John is there. John returns to his room to find his clothes scattered. He gathers his gun from the closet and investigates, finding Bartholomew in the kitchen. He shoots at the creature, with Scarlett nearby, who runs away screaming. Elizabeth, Will, and Lachlan (Lyric Lennon) return. While unpacking, Liz reveals to Elizabeth that she and Tristan have been carrying on an affair for a few weeks. Elizabeth says that she does not share, but maybe when she is done with Tristan. Liz pleads her case again, and Elizabeth says they will talk it over.
John's partner drops Alex off at the house, concerned for John's health. Alex tries to talk to him, but he realizes that she has moved to the hotel full-time and he shuns her. She follows a rustling in the bushes to find Bartholomew. Tristan greets Elizabeth in Liz's room, and she asks the two lovers to sit while she pours them each a drink. She says that she does not enjoy betrayal and afterwards she slices Tristan's throat. Elizabeth leaves to find Alex and Bartholomew in Room 33. Elizabeth is impressed that Alex saved her son, and Alex responds that Elizabeth saved Holden. As Alex leaves, Elizabeth cradles her son.