As a child, Lucie escapes a building where she has been held captive and tortured. Lucie spends the rest of her childhood at St. Mary's Orphanage where she is haunted by hallucinations of a woman attacking her. Over time, she grows extremely close to Anna, a fellow resident at the orphanage and Lucie's only friend.
One month later, Lucie goes to the countryside home of the Patterson family with a shotgun and executes all four family members, believing them to be related to her childhood torture. Lucie calls Anna who is concerned that the family may not be responsible for Lucie's torture. Anna is horrified by the scene when she arrives at the house and calls 911 while Lucie sleeps but hangs up. Anna discovers Mrs. Patterson is still alive and tries to help her escape. Lucie suddenly tackles Mrs. Patterson outside and stabs her to death. While cleaning the crime scene, Anna finds a secret panel in a closet which leads to a hidden basement. Anna finds a little girl named Sam and rescues her. The two regroup with Lucie and flee outside when several trucks arrive with Eleanor, Fenton and several other people; all three girls are captured and imprisoned.
Eleanor and Fenton oversee the girls' torture. Eleanor explains that her group is a collective dedicated to discovering what waits in the afterlife. By torturing women and young girls to their breaking point, they believe they can create Martyrs with an ability to glimpse briefly into "the other side". They value Lucie as a rare find; she is capable of enduring great pain without dying. Eleanor and Anna watch from an overhead room as the cabal gathers to observe a captive woman being burned to death. After the woman dies, the priest overseeing her ordeal looks in Eleanor's direction and shakes his head. Lucie is taken for surgery and Eleanor orders the doctor to perform a procedure on Lucie. The doctor cuts and peels a piece of flesh from Lucie's back as part of the final preparations for her martyrdom.
Meanwhile, Anna is taken to a pit outside and buried alive but she digs her way into a drainage ditch and escapes. She fights her way back into the underground facility, killing several cabal members. She frees Sam and tells her to run for help. While she searches for Lucie, she is attacked by Fenton and shot in the shoulder but eventually kills him with the help of another captive woman.
Anna finds and interrupts an assembly gathered to watch Lucie die on a cross. Lucie gets a look in her eyes that the group feels signifies martyrdom and Anna, wielding Fenton's gun, insists that Lucie be freed. Lucie reveals what she saw in a whisper to Anna. Eleanor demands to know what Lucie said; the priest says he heard Lucie's whispers before quickly putting a gun in his mouth and killing himself. Anna shoots Eleanor and the rest cabal members flee. Anna embraces Lucie as they lie dying on the floor. With the police on their way, both women's eyes glaze over with the look of martyrdom.