Albert Nobbs (Glenn Close) works with extreme dedication as a hotel butler in 19th-century Ireland. Assigned as female at birth, and initially raised as a girl, Albert has spent the last 30 years living as a man. Albert has been secretly saving money to buy a tobacco shop to gain some measure of freedom and independence.
Meanwhile, recently unemployed Joe Mackins (Aaron Taylor-Johnson) arrives at the hotel to repair the boiler. Flirtatious maid Helen Dawes (Mia Wasikowska) is attracted to him, and they become lovers. However, Joe soon shows himself to be an alcoholic bully.
At this time, a Mr. Hubert Page (Janet McTeer), who was tasked with painting the hotel, discovers Albert's secret, only to reveal that he is keeping the very same secret about himself.
Albert visits Hubert at his home and meets Cathleen (Bronagh Gallagher), who lives with him as his wife. Albert tells Hubert the story of his life: born a bastard and then abandoned, Albert was raised and educated in a convent before being kicked out after the death of Mrs Nobbs, Albert's mother. One night, aged 14 and still presenting as female, Albert was brutally gang-raped and beaten by a group of men. Immediately afterwards, after hearing there was a need for waiters, Albert bought a suit, was interviewed and was hired, and began his life with a male identity. Albert's former name is not revealed.
Believing Helen may be the ideal wife to run a shop with, Albert asks her to 'walk out'. She refuses, but Joe, believing that Albert will give Helen money that could help the pair emigrate to America, encourages her to lead Albert on. She agrees to this approach, allowing Albert to buy her expensive gifts. Helen is uncomfortable with Albert and the arrangement that Joe forced her to make. Albert tells Helen about long-kept plans to buy a shop, though she only wants to leave Ireland for America.
A typhoid epidemic breaks out in Dublin, and when some staff fall ill, customers avoid the hotel, causing financial problems. Albert becomes infected but recovers, while Helen discovers she is pregnant with Joe's child. Joe is terrified, fearing he will become like his abusive father. Albert goes to Hubert's home and learns that Cathleen died, leaving Hubert devastated. As a tribute to her, Albert and Hubert don dresses Cathleen made and take a stroll on the beach. Though both at first are extremely uncomfortable, they eventually enjoy spending the day together dressed as women. They take a walk along the beach where Albert, feeling free, runs in the sand. But a stumble and fall bring Albert back to reality. The pair return to Hubert's, change back into their men's clothing, and go back to their lives as before.
Back at the hotel, Albert learns Helen is pregnant and offers to marry her. She refuses, saying Albert does not love her, though Albert voices a fear that Joe will abandon her and the child and go to America alone. Later that evening, when Joe and Helen get into a loud fight, Albert intervenes. Albert physically attacks Joe when he attempts to hurt Helen in a fit of rage. Albert is thrown against a wall by Joe, sustaining a head injury. Albert retires to bed, bleeding from one ear. Later that night, Albert dies, presumably as a result of the head injury.
Mrs. Baker discovers Albert's hidden money and uses it to revitalize the hotel. In the following months, Joe has gone to America and Helen has given birth to a son, Albert Joseph. Mrs. Baker makes further use of Albert's money by hiring Hubert to paint the entire hotel. Hubert sees Helen again, who breaks down and reveals that she will be separated from her son and thrown out into the street. Hubert tells her, "We can't let that happen, can we?", implying that he will look after her.