I'm in Love with a Church Girl (Molina, 2013) is based on a true story about the writer himself, Galley Molina and directed by Steve Race. The protagonist that plays Galley in the movie is Miles Montego (Jeff Atkins). Miles girlfriend was played by the beautiful Vanessa Leon (Adrienne Bailon). Early in the film Miles goes to his friend's house Nick Halston (Vincent Pastore) for a party. Nick was a former drug dealer but God saved him from the disruptive lifestyle. When Miles was at Nick's house he introduced Miles to Vanessa. Afterwards they started dating. Vanessa is a strong church going Christian. Meanwhile, they both lived two different lives. Although both Miles and Vanessa were dating, Miles was a fugitive. The Christian detective that was tracking Miles every step was Jason McDaniels (Stephen Baldwin). Indoors Miles was doing illegal things. But when he started dating Vanessa, Miles put on a persona because she was such a humbled girl. At the same time, Vanessa did not know about Miles's double life. Jason, the detective, would get confused from time to time if Miles was a fugitive or not. Nevertheless, Miles took Vanessa out to the club where Miles friends were at. When his friends brought up particular drug stories Miles would do his best to change the subject but his friends would not stop. Miles acted like he was buying them a drink but said quietly "tone it down my girl is around." Miles and Vanessa went to a restaurant that same night and he confessed he was living a double life. Vanessa was okay with it because she knows God loves any and everybody. Miles love grew towards Vanessa after being relieved that she was not worried about his lifestyle. Furthermore, Vanessa told Miles he has to come to church with her or else the relationship would not work. In the next scene, Miles does go to church and he liked what he saw. What caught his eye was Pastor Galley. He did not look like the normal pastor, while wearing jeans and a fitted cap. Miles thought he would not fit into the Christian world before going to Vanessa's church. The pastor was the writer, Galley Molina. What Galley said to Miles after the church service outside the sanctuary was that "it does not matter about the past because God can use you to share the gospel as well." Eventually he started coming to church regularly and slowly isolated from his friends. Amusingly enough, Miles mother was having health issues that were severe also Vanessa got into a car crash. Miles was filled with anger and was angry at God for making this happen. Miles opened the doors of the church, went to his knees and had some words with God. Most importantly, Miles overcame all the storms and became a Pastor. Jason finally realized Miles is a changed man after finding out he went to church on a regular bases. Lastly, Miles became a Pastor.