=== Prequel ===
Imortal is a sequel to the 2008 ABS-CBN fantasy series, Lobo. The previous series also starred Angel Locsin opposite Piolo Pascual. However, Lobo story-wise only included werewolves without any reference to vampires. Locsin's character in Imortal will be the daughter of her character in Lobo.
=== Synopsis ===
Year 1572, a group of powerful beings arrived in the philippine shores. Known as vampires, drinkers of human blood, their menace quickly spread throughout the land. But unknown to them, a powerful clan also lived in the islands, a group of beings who can transform themselves into powerful werewolves - the Taong Lobos.
The Taong Lobos were the humans' protectors and together they immediately formed an army to destroy the vampires. The blood drinkers were no match to the Taong Lobos. One by one, they fell. Those who survived were driven into hiding. What followed was peace among the humans and Taong Lobos, and the memory of the vampires started to fade. Around this time, the "Taong Lobos" dealt with a crisis of their own giving way to the events of the first series.
Unbeknownst to them, the vampires are only lying in wait – organizing and fortifying their numbers until they are ready. They are holding a secret: a prophecy that foretells of an epic battle between them and the Taong Lobos that will finally decide the one blood that shall rule all. The battle shall be led by a powerful vampire and a powerful werewolf who are each other's nemesis and downfall. The vampires believe they have found their prophesied savior and now they are preparing to come out and start the war. The Taong Lobos have grown complacent, and they know nothing about the prophecy.
With the stage set for an epic battle, two individuals, Mateo (John Lloyd Cruz) and Lia (Angel Locsin), find themselves drawn to each other, unsuspecting that as they grow closer together, they are awakening the powers that are lying dormant in both of them – the same powers that will inevitably tear them apart.
=== Episodes ===