Leyla ile Mecnun is probably the first surreal comedy that reached masses. It is a revolutionary step towards breaching the wall between popular entertainment and art in Turkey. Although this may sound exaggerating, it is actually an understatement, because the wall is both broken both ways. What makes art a piece of art and what makes an entertainment entertaining, is very openly demonstrated. People who believe art is just a discrimination where no one speaks the truth "the King is naked" will probably start appreciating art more than they did after they watch this series. And vice versa, people who do not enjoy many pieces of work simply because they are popular/emotional, can find themselves blown into this.The main story evolves around a guy (Mecnun) who falls in love with the daughter (Leyla) of his father's childhood friend. However, in line with the most popular global TV series of this millennium, the main characters do not dominate the story at all. Especially in the 2nd season, this fact strengthens. Mecnun's father, his closest friends, the owner of the local market, the thief of the neighborhood become inseparable parts of the story as it evolves.There is much to tell, but elaborating on what this TV series is really about should suffice. It is about love and the pain it is proceeded by. It is about how love can evolve one's perspective of life & universe. It is about how one can recover even from the deepest pain. It is about friendship, but a more eastern, more genuine version of it. It is about fathers and sons and the unconditional love of the father towards his son. It is about how laughter and depression can crowd each other. It is about how complex characters possessing opposite characteristics that are extremely polar, and how those characteristics can blend into someone in reality. It is about good and evil. It is about life and afterlife.As mentioned before, it is surreal. When you see the characters eating grapes to demonstrate they are drinking wine in reality, and chewing gum in the same way to replace cigarettes, you can appreciate how one can tell something by being open about it and with no harm done at the same time. Children watching think they are are chewing gum, adults appreciate they are smoking. Perfect.I really feel bad for those who do not speak Turkish and cannot appreciate this wonderful work of life. Please find below the preceding synopsis:The story is about the love between Leyla and Mecnun that's based on the Turkish adaptation of the famous Arabic love-story "Layla and Majnun", written by the Azeri poet Fuzuli, whom he appears in the series sometimes. The story begins when two babies, who were born on the same day, were put together on the same bed because there weren't enough beds.
The fathers of the babies gave them names of two lovers, whose love was so great it became legendary; Leyla and Mecnun. The fathers vowed that they will marry their children with each other in the future.Leyla is a rich and beautiful girl. What's making her exceptional is that despite the fact that Leyla is the only girl of a rich family, she's not as arrogant as the typical spoiled rich girl. Leyla has a pure and innocent heart with a modest character.
Mecnun is a messy person from a poor family. He also has a pure heart and has such a nice and funny character that he can't harm anyone.Both are aged 25 now. After all these years they would meet again.
Mecnun instantly fell in love with Leyla at the first sight and since that day he is doing his best to gain her heart.
With the help of Dede appearing in Mecnun's dreams and later appearing in the real world, the two lover's eternal love can keep up against the evil Arda and his father, who try to break them up.Leyla ile Mecnun is brilliant tv-series mixing comedy with drama where you will shed your tears for at some points. Together with a touchy story and enjoyable comedy, this series is one of the best comedy series ever.