=== Season 1 ===
Fast-talking New Yorker and brand new physician Zoe Hart has it all figured out—after graduating top of her class from medical school, she'll follow in her father's footsteps and become a cardio-thoracic surgeon. But when her dreams fall apart, Zoe decides to accept an offer from a stranger, Dr. Harley Wilkes, to work with him at his small practice in Bluebell, Alabama. Zoe arrives in this small Gulf Coast town only to find that Harley has died and left his half of the medical practice to her in his will.
She quickly finds that Southern hospitality isn't always so hospitable—the other physician in town, Brick Breeland, is less than pleased to be sharing the practice with this young outsider, and his daughter, Lemon, is a Southern belle whose sweet disposition turns sour when she meets Zoe. Zoe's only allies are the mayor, former football star Lavon Hayes, her bad-boy neighbor Wade Kinsella, and handsome lawyer George Tucker – who just happens to be Lemon's fiancé. Zoe is out of her element and ready to pack her bags, but a surprise visit by her snobby New York mother leads to Zoe's decision to stay in Bluebell for a while; she soon discovers the charm of small-town life and a side of herself she didn't know was there.
=== Season 2 ===
The second season opens with Zoe confused over her conflicting feelings for both George and Wade. Having just slept with Wade, Zoe decides that George is not ready for a relationship and tells him to date other people as she doesn't want to be his rebound. Following this, Zoe starts a casual relationship with Wade before they both agree to become an official couple. Later on in the season Wade has a drunken one night stand causing Zoe to end their relationship. After spending time mourning this, Zoe realises she still has feelings for George who turns her away as he is now happily in a relationship with Tansy. In the finale Zoe has a one night stand with Wade, after which Wade declares his love for her, but she decides to spend the summer in New York to get some distance from her life. George decides to leave Bluebell and goes on the road with Lily Anne and her band.
Other storylines include Lemon re-entering the dating world and trying to prove herself as an independent woman without George or her father, Brick's relationship with the much younger Shelby, Lavon's election battle against Ruby and their subsequent relationship and George's unexpected relationship with Wade's ex-wife Tansy. In the final part of the season Lemon and Wade become the co-owners of the Rammer Jammer and constantly collide over decisions and how to run the bar.
=== Season 3 ===
After spending the summer in New York, Zoe makes the decision to return to Bluebell with her new boyfriend Joel (Josh Cooke) although it's clear she still has unresolved feelings for Wade, a situation which is made more uncomfortable as Wade and Joel become good friends. Brick refuses to give Zoe half of the practice back so she must settle for being his employee. Zoe also reaches out to the family of her late father, Harley Wilkes. Although initially turned away she becomes close to her cousin Vivian who, in turn, starts a relationship with Wade. By the end of the season both Zoe and Joel's and Wade and Vivian's relationships have broken down and Zoe declares her love for Wade. Wade is cautious to get involved with Zoe again, believing they do not have a future together after all they've been through. Zoe vows to prove Wade wrong.
Lemon starts to realize that she wants more from her life than just the Rammer Jammer, so she decides to leave the business and look for something else. After tension between herself and Cricket she also decides to leave the Belles and re-assess her life. She has several short term flings during this time and before becoming the owner of Fancie's.
Lavon and Annabeth's relationship is tested as Annabeth longs for a stronger commitment. They must also deal with a house guest in shape of Lavon's cousin, Lynly. Lynly begins a relationship with George but after realising there is still a spark between him and his ex Tansy she leaves Bluebell.
Annabeth begins to want more commitment from Lavon but when he is unable to give it to her they break up. During their separation Annabeth begins dating a new man but turns down his proposal when she realises she still has feelings for Lavon; however, at the same time both Lavon and George race to declare their reignited feelings for Lemon.
Lavon must also deal with rising pressure as a neighboring town tries to force a merger with Bluebell in order to take over and re-build over the area.
=== Season 4 ===
The season starts off with Zoe trying to win Wade back. George and Lavon find out they are both in love with Lemon, who is on a single's cruise. Zoe and Wade sleep together, but Wade decides he doesn't want to be with Zoe. When they finally go on a date, Zoe runs away then later tells Wade she is pregnant with Wade's baby. Past the initial shock, Wade finally tells Zoe that she's the love of his life. After Crickett came out as a lesbian and get the divorce, she starts dating Jaysene a firewoman. George and Annabeth find themselves developing feelings for each other after moving on from their past loves. Lavon and Lemon finally come back together. The series ends with Zoe and Wade getting married just minutes before their baby boy is born. George and Annabeth confess their love and moving in together in Nashville; Lavon and Lemon also get married.