Ryan Varrett (Steve Austin), is an ex-cop determined to avenge the murder of his family. In 2009, when Ryan was a cop in Dallas, Texas, his wife Constance Marie Varrett (Rebecca Robbins) and 9-year-old son Matt Ryan Varrett (Connor Stanhope) were viciously killed by a gang. Ryan survived the assault and killed three of the gang.
However, Ryan quits the Dallas police and hits the road to find everyone else responsible for the deaths of his loved ones. Special Agent Frank Sutton (Lochlyn Munro) of the FBI's Seattle office is investigating the deaths of criminals.
After killing a rapist named Dale James Burrows (Roman Podhora), Ryan ends up in the small town of Hope, Washington, where a gas station owner named Kirby (Patrick Gilmore) directs Ryan to a tiny hotel run by a woman named Darcy (Serinda Swan). Ryan finds Rex Ray Salgado (Noel Gugliemi), a member of the gang that attacked Ryan's family.
It turns out that Hope is under the control of the Circle, a drug and arms dealing biker gang led by Rex's brother, Drayke Salgado (Danny Trejo), who is on the ATF's most wanted list. Sheriff Cole (Tom McBeath) is in Drayke's pocket, so Ryan has only himself and Darcy to depend on.
Ryan kills Rex, Drayke declares war on Ryan, and the town of Hope becomes a battleground. It turns out that Drayke masterminded the shooting of Ryan's family members, and the families of other cops who years ago sent him to prison, where he was brutalized. Drayke got even with the prisoners who brutalized him, then got even with the cops who put him away.
After Kirby is killed by Crab (Keith Jardine), Drayke's right-hand man, Sutton arrives in town, and Cole tries to convince him that Rex's death was an accident. Cole thinks that by appeasing the bikers, he is protecting the town from more bloodshed. Ryan finds Crab and burns him to death.
Since Cole is not much help, Sutton goes to Cole's son, Deputy Hedge (Adam Greydon Reid), who is not in Drayke's pocket. Hedge explains that a long-time ago, the Circle used to protect the town. That was before Drayke took over and started running guns. Rex provided Drayke with a recipe for meth, and Drayke and his gang started selling drugs too.
However, Drayke and his gang are arming themselves for all-out war against Ryan, and they don't care whom they have to kill. At night, Darcy hears bikers approaching her hotel. Ryan kills the three bikers. Outside, more bikers grab Darcy and beat Ryan up.
On the next day, Ryan has been taken to Drayke, and some of his men bring Darcy into the room. They're on an abandoned ferry boat that Drayke uses as his headquarters. Drayke leaves his man Prospect (Tygh Runyan) to beat Ryan up. Ryan breaks free from his restraints and takes care of Prospect. Ryan overcomes Drayke's men, finds Darcy and frees her. Deputy Hedge goes to his father's house and finds Cole has shot himself. With Sutton's help, but Hedge plans to go after Drayke.
Ryan remembers Drayke being present during the attack on his family. Until Ryan came to Hope, Drayke thought Ryan was dead. Ryan and Drayke start fighting. A shot kills Drayke. It was Sutton who fired the shot. Darcy decides that she's going to stay in Hope, and Sutton decides to not arrest Ryan. Hedge becomes the new sheriff. Ryan decides to leave town, but promises Darcy that he will send her a postcard to let her know where he is.