The story is set some time before the events of Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, and begins in medias res with Nathan Drake following rival explorer Jason Dante through a temple complex in Panama. Dante has ordered his army of mercenaries to kill Drake on sight, and after a series of gunfights, the platform Drake is climbing is hit by an RPG.
The game then flashes back two weeks, when Drake and Dante, revealed to be old friends, arrive at a dig site in Panama headed by Dante's "partner" Marisa Chase, who doesn't trust him. At the site, they find corpses of Spanish conquistadors that were apparently poisoned and a grave marker with a Visigoth symbol. Chase also shows Drake an amulet that she hid from Dante. The dig is then interrupted by Dante's real partner, warlord Roberto Guerro. Guerro captures Drake and Chase, however they escape Guerro's base after Chase starts a diversionary fire.
They then go to the house of her grandfather Vincent Perez, who found the amulet at the site. Perez hired Dante to conduct further research after being diagnosed with terminal cancer, and Dante paid off Guerro for access to the site in return for a share of the treasure that Guerro will use to fund his conflict. Chase arrived at the site herself hoping to finish Perez's work. Upon returning to Perez's study, they learn that the marker referred to the Sete Cidades, an ancient Christian sect dedicated to finding the seven cities of gold. Friar Marcos de Niza, a member of the sect, had led Coronado's expedition to find Cíbola only to find the villages of the Zuni.
Following further clues, one referring to a "Sword of Stephen", they follow Perez's trail to a ruined Sete Cidades retreat. They find Perez, who succumbed to his illness, as well as evidence that leads Drake to suspect that de Niza had deliberately misled Coronado for reasons unknown. Drake then follows the ruins to a crypt that contains the Sword of Stephen - the personal sword of Esteban, de Niza's guide; however, they are interrupted by Dante, who had followed them with Guerro.
Guerro takes the sword and Chase after pushing Dante off a balcony for insulting him. Drake reluctantly teams up with Dante to escape the ruins and Guerro's army, but are unable to stop Guerro from escaping with her. Dante decides to hire an army of mercenaries to rescue Chase and avenge himself on Guerro, and the two part ways after Drake objects. Although hesitant at first, Drake convinces Victor "Sully" Sullivan to help him find Chase and finish Perez's work. The two follow a map made from the charcoal rubbings of symbols found on the sword to a temple complex believed to house the entrance to the mythical city of Quivira. There they witness and fight through a battle between Dante's mercenaries and Guerro's men. Sully is injured in a fall, forcing Drake to continue by himself.
Drake then fights through more of Dante's mercenaries - surviving the explosion from the prologue - and makes his way to the massive entrance of Quivira where he rescues Chase from the remnants of Guerro's army. After Chase insists that they continue, Drake uses the amulet on the gate to open it. The pair then cross a massive underground lake and make it to the Golden Abyss, a massive room whose walls are lined with gold. They also find the corpse of Esteban, who was sacrificed by Marcos. A geiger counter stowed in Chase's backpack then suddenly activates and reveals the gold to be radioactive. Realizing that the Quiviran populace had died out from radiation poisoning, they conclude that de Niza had sacrificed Esteban and his scouting party before deliberately misleading Coronado in order to prevent them from looting the irradiated gold.
However, Dante arrives and reveals that he knew about the radiation, while still intending to sell the irradiated gold on the black market anyway. Drake defeats him in a fist fight and escapes with Chase as Dante verbally admonishes him for valuing principles above money. When they return to the gate, Chase detonates explosives that Guerro had planted beforehand, sealing Dante in the cavern for good. As the two escape the ensuing cave-in, Guerro appears and attacks them with a rocket launcher, trapping Chase under a fallen pillar. Drake fights and tricks Guerro into falling through a damaged bridge to his death with the Sword of Stephen. He then frees Chase and the two escape to the surface with Sully's help. Before they leave in a helicopter stolen by Sully, she tosses away the amulet, believing it belongs "in hell" with the rest of Quivira. It is also implied that the two start a relationship following the climax of the game.