Hours after the end of the previous game and the death of the traitorous General Shepard, the remnants of Task Force 141 (TF141) Captain John Price (Billy Murray), John Soap MacTavish (Kevin McKidd) and Prices pilot/informant Nikolai have fled Afghanistan to a safe house belonging to Nikolai's allies. Soap is critically wounded and the whole team is wanted for war crimes they didn't commit. Shortly after they arrive, forces under the command of Ultranationalist terrorist Vladimir Makarov (Roman Varshavsky) attack to try to kill them. Nikolais best soldier, a man named Yuri (Brian Bloom) , joins the team and helps Price and Nikolai evacuate the team to safetyMeanwhile, in New York City, a Delta Force unit named Team Metal is activated. The team is led by a squad leader code-named "Sandman" (William Fichtner) and Sgt. Derek "Frost" Westbrook . They are tasked with taking out as Russian jammer tower on the roof of the New York Stock Exchange which is preventing American air attacks. The team fights it's way through the city, into the trading floor and up onto the roof where they destroy the tower. They are evacuated from the roof by a Blackhawk gunship and they fight their way to safety, destroying several Mi-24 Hind gunships along the way. The American Air Force then establishes air superiority over the city. Next, Team Metal rendezvous with a team of Navy SEALS to infiltrate a Russian Oscar II submarine being used as a command vessel. They force it to surface and take control of the boat. Sandman and Frost use the sub's weapons against the Russian fleet in the harbor and then escape the vessel. These twin American victories, together with victories in the Washington DC area (from the previous game) prompt the Russians to evacuate the United StatesTwo months later, Russian President Boris Vorshevsky proposes a ceasefire. He heads to a summit meeting with the American Vice President in Hamburg, Germany. This action enrages the hardliners in his government and they side with Makarov. The President's plane is hijacked on the way to the summit by Makarov's forces and the President is captured. Makarov demands that Vorshevsky give him the nuclear launch codes, which he refuses.Makarovs actions prompt TF141 to take action. Yuri's intelligence reported that Makarov was moving some cargo from Sierra Leone to Europe. Makarov was using a local militia as security and building his weapons in Africa. TF141, consisting of Price, a recovered Soap and Yuri sneak into the village. They investigate the factory, only to find it abandoned. The militia then attacks, both with technical and Mortar teams. TF141 neutralizes the enemies and heads to the militia HQ, a local church. They are able to eliminate all the enemies there but they just miss the shipment. Information at the militia headquarters reveals that Makarov was smuggling WMDs using a company called Fregata EnterprisesWestern intelligence learns that one of Makarov's shipments is headed to London. A SAS team led by Sgt. Wallcroft and Sgt. Marcus Burns tries to intercept the shipment, first at the docks and then in a harrowing chase through the London Underground. They are able to catch up to the truck, only to learn it was a decoy. A mile or so away, an American tourist family are on their way to see Big Ben. As the child runs up to the corner, a white truck come stops at the curb and two men run away from the vehicle. Moments late the chemical weapons bomb in the truck exploded. All caught on the tourist camcorder. This would be just one of a series of chemical attacks in Western capitals that day with the intent of crippling Western response to Russian aggression. When the smoke cleared, it was determined that thousands had died in a terrorist attack even worse than 9-11. Taking advantage of the chaos, the Russian army attacked Western Europe, occupying much of the continentNATO responds by sending a force to liberate Hamburg. Task Force Metal was sent along with them to do another mission--rescue the American Vice President, who was being held by Makarovs forces. Frost and the rest of Team Metal fight alongside the invasion force and push their way into the city. At that point Frost joins a tank crew and takes the vehicle into a parking garage fighting all the way. At the end the team get out onto the streets, searching for the Vice President convoy. They find it a few blocks away, with no one there. They head into another building where they rescue the Vice President.Price contacts his former commander, MacMillan, now in command of the SAS. MacMillan gives Price intel on the attacks, namely that Makarov's African contact, a Somali warlord named Waraabe was responsible for providing the chemical weapons and he was at his compound in Bosasso, Somalia. Price and his team head into Waraabe's compound just ahead of a huge sandstorm. The team enters the compound engaging the warlord's forces. Nikolai gives Yuri remote command of a mini-gun on the chopper. He uses it to cut down many of the enemy forces. Price Soap and Yuri fight their way into Waraabe's headquarters. They breach the door to his office and take out the guards, capturing Waraabe.Price and the team put on their gas masks and Price threatens Waraabe with the gas. He makes Waraaabe reveal his contact, an arms dealer named Volk, the man behind Fregatta Enterprises. Price then kills Waraabe for his role in killing so many thousands of people. When the team tries to leave, they are attacked by the rest of the militia. With the sandstorm bearing down, they push forward to the landing zone. The sandstorm comes too fast and the chopper goes down. The team fights their way to the crash site to rescue Nikolai. The storm reduces visibility to a few feet. The team makes it to the crash site and they flee to a vehicle to escape the compoundArmed with this information, Price contacts Sandman and tells him about Volk. Team Metal then heads to Paris to link up with French Intelligence. Team Metal and the French forces fought through the streets of Paris, still filled with clouds of toxic gas. They used a couple of airstrikes to take out the vehicles in their way and made it to the catacombs under the city. The joint team slipped through the passageways until they found Volk's headquarters. Volk fled when the team arrived with Frost in hot pursuit. They emerged onto the streets and Volk fled away in his car. The team got into their vehicle and chased Volk. They caught up to Volk and ran his car off the road, capturing him.Because the city was a war zone, Team Metal needed to fight their way to the landing zone so they could escape with their prisoner. The team moved for several blocks only to be blocked by an armor column. They are given air support by an AC-130 gunship which clears their way to the US Embassy. The team is pinned down by an implanted machine gun nest, but Frost moves to the flanks and takes out the enemy with a sniper rifle. The team fights on and then make a mad dash through the city getting support from the gunship until they reached the Eiffel Tower. There, they fought a pitched battle with the enemy. With the help of air support the team was able to clear the way to the landing zone. The Tower fell during the battleVolk revealed the whole conspiracy under questioning. He revealed that Makarov was holding a war council with his allies in a hotel in Prague, Czech Republic. Sandman gave the intel to Price who was already in Prague. Price intended to assassinate Makarov at the meeting. Yuri and Soap slipped into the city. Because the city was under Russian lockdown, they needed extreme stealth. They got into the center of the city, but couldn't get to their target because of the enemy forces. At that point, local Resistance fighters launched a diversionary attack (it was arranged by Price and his ally Kamarov). The team fought their way through the city and got to their target, a church overlooking the hotel where the meeting was scheduled.Hours later, Price was at the hotel and Yuri and Soap were waiting across the street in the church with sniper rifles, waiting for Makarov. The convoy showed up, but Makarov wasnt there. He anticipated the attack and booby trapped both the church and hotel (he strapped the explosives to the captured Kamarov). Makarov sent a message "You shouldnt have come here, Yuri". Soap realized that Makarov and Yuri knew each other. The bombs went off Price managed to escape, but when the bomb went off in the church, Soap and Yuri fell to the ground. Soap was badly injured.Yuri and Price fought their way to the safehouse in a frantic attempt to get aid for the severely wounded Soap. They survived to make it to safety. They tried to save Soap, but he died. In his dying words, he gasped "Makarov knows Yuri". Price and Yuri left the room and Price punched Yuri down the nearby stairs, jamming a Desert Eagle pistol in Yuris face "Tell me how the bloody hell Makarov knows you"Yuri began his story, telling of how he and Makarov were working for Imran Zakhaev since the 1996 incident in Pripyat--near the site of the Chernobyl power plant (when Price tried to kill Zakhaev, but just wounded him) and the moment when Makarov ordered the detonation of the Nuke that destroyed a city, and killed over 30,000 American soldiers. Yuri also told of how he tried to stop Makarov's terrorist attack on the Moscow airport--he revealed the plot to Russian security services and was shot by Makarov for doing this. During the massacre he followed Makarov, despite his wounds in an attempt to stop him but he couldn't. At that point Price decides to still believe Yuri--for now.Price and Yuri go to the only other place in the area where Makarov's people are believed to be, a medieval castle. They slip into the compound, planting C4 on various parts of the building and infiltrate the command center. They continue on and slip up to the main office of the building. They learn that Makarov is still pressuring President Vorshevsky for the launch codes and that Makarov has learned where Vorshevsky's daughter Alena was being hidden in Berlin. Price and Yuri escape from the castle and send a message to Team Metal about Makarovs plans to capture Alena to force Vorshevsky to give up the codes.Team Metal and other American forces contact Alena Vorshevsky and she reveals where she is hiding and that her protection detail has been killed. Metal fights their way to the roof of a nearby building with the plan of providing cover for Team Granite, who was going to perform the rescue. Frost as his team take control of the roof and Frost used a sniper rifle to clear the adjoining rood. Team Granite arrives on the roof and moves to enter the building, while a column of Russian tanks approach the building Frost calls an A-10 strike on the column to protect the American forces. The tanks are destroyed, but Team Granite is killed by additional enemy forces in the building. Sandman then ordered Metal to go to the hotel, knowing they would have to rescue Alena themselves. They fought their way through the city, supported by a German armor column. They nearly reach the building only to have the Russians destroy another building, dropping the rubble on the team. Team Metal slips through the collapsed building and gets to the hotel where Alena was hiding. They fight through the building, climbing up to the fifth floor, only to learn Alena wasn't there anymore. Frost and Sandman climb up to the roof they rush to save Alena, but they are too late--Makarovs men took her away by chopper and Frost was badly wounded.Knowing that Vorshevsky wouldnt be able to hold out now that Makarov had his daughter, Team Metal (minus the wounded Frost) and TF 141 launch a joint rescue mission. They knew that Makarov was holding his hostages in a diamond mind in Siberia. The two teams fight their way through the building supporting the diamond mine and get to the outside. They fight their way through the construction area supported by Predator strikes until they reach the command center. They go through the building until they reach the room where Makarov's men were torturing Alena. Team metal rescues a wounded Alena, who tells them Makarov's men took her father deeper into the mine. The two teams press on deeper into the mine, where they find the team guarding President Vorshevsky. Yuri shoots the terrorist holding Vorshevsky with a sniper shot and the teams move him to the rescue chopper. The terrorists counterattack, Price and Yuri get the president into the chopper as Team Metal covers their escape. Price wanted to help them escape also, but Sandman tells him to save the President. TF141 escapes with the Presient while the mine collapses killing Team MetalAfter President Vorshevsky is rescued, the summit goes on as planned and the war comes to an end. In Moscow, Makarov's political allies are purged out of the government and Vorshevsky forms an Ultranationalist-Loyalist coalition government. As a result of their heroics in saving Vorshevsky and the revelation of General Shepard's duplicity, Task Force 141 is cleared of all charges. This clears the task force to do one last mission--Kill Makarov. They discover that Makarov and his remaining forces have set up shop in Dubai. Price and Yuri arrive in Dubai and head to Makarov's HQ--the Hotel Oasis. Equipped with Juggernaut suits they storm into the hotel lobby, taking out Makarov's guards as they go. They head up in the elevator only to have it attacked by a helicopter. Their armor is damaged and they have to shed it. Price and Yuri head up to the restaurant on the top floor. They fight Makarov's guards and Yuri is severely wounded as Makarov flees to the roof. Yuri implores Price to leave him and go after Makarov. Price sprints onto the roof and jumps onto Makarov's chopper just as it was leaving. Price kills the two pilots and takes the chopper. It crashes onto the roof, wounding both Price and Makarov. Makarov moves to kill Price, but Yuri clambers up onto the roof to stop him. Makarov kills Yuri, giving Price the distraction he needed. Price wraps the cable around Makarov's neck and hangs him. Price then has a victory cigar as he watches Makarovs corpse hang in front of him