Based in a small town in the state of Uttar Pradesh, Saheb Biwi Aur Gangster is a story packed with intrigue betrayal and ambition between a beautiful Raani (Mahi Gill), her Raja husband (Jimmy Shergill) and an ambitious young man Babloo (Randeep Hooda).
The Raja and his Raani live in their ancestral royal house trying to maintain the status and structure their ancestors had left behind. But due to the changing times, some extreme financial conditions and the long gone habit of a royal having a mistress, the Raja tries hard to maintain his status and financial conditions. His rival political party, belonging to Gainda Singh (Vipin Sharma), is on a constant mission to eliminate the Raja and his allies, to get a hold of the administration, which has been with this royal family for decades. Eventually he is left with just one ally, Kanahiya (Deepraj Rana), who is Saheb's most trusted and dangerous servant. Due to the Raja's interest in his beautiful mistress, Raani yearns for his attention and tries to get him to return to her. The Raja starts taking contract killing assignments to be able to cope up with his lifestyle and to be able to get a stronger hold over his political situation while campaigning for the elections, which becomes a difficult battle considering the loss of his allies and deteriorating financial situation.
The drama deepens when the same rival gang plants Babloo (Randeep Hooda) to get information and plot the Raja's killing, as the temporary driver for Raani. Raani, saddened by the lack of her husband's attention and slightly hysterical due to the same, gets into a sexual relationship with Babloo who seems to be giving more of his time to her. In this process, Babloo falls deeply in love with Raani and confesses his assignment in front of Raja. The Raani uses Babloo to get the mistress killed to gain her husband. Babloo manages to fulfill her demand but in turn gets ambitious, wanting the Raani and the power which Saheb now holds for himself.
The climax is set at a point where Babloo has planned to execute Saheb, and succeeds in shooting him and Kanahiya. After intercourse with his mistress, she reminds him of her payment of Rs. 20000 and he reminds her of her stature and that he will return her money the next time he visits. Later, Raani has Babloo shot dead stating that "he can only be a partner in the bedroom, but not as a Saheb". Saheb slowly recovering, as he wins the election. In the end, Raani is shown appointing a new driver for herself, which hints at a sequel.