The film reverts 36 hours earlier after a man pulls up at a house and confronts another man at his front door. The tale centers on Harry (Brian Petsos), a freelancer who spends a great deal of time with his beloved female pup, Jolly. Owing a group of people a large amount of money for refusing to do them a favor, he plans to leave town to avoid the debt. One day when he returns home, Jolly is found dead. Stricken with grief and anger, Harry enlists the help of his close cousin Cecil (Oscar Isaac) to find Jolly's murderer, dragging him through a path of destruction.
At a bar, they interrogate a rude bartender, Thomas (Elijah Wood), getting a lead on a man named Bachmeier (Ryan Phillippe), a regular visitor and suspect who was given Harry's address upon request. Harry snaps and shoots Thomas dead for that reason. Next, they track down known hooker, Tina (Gillian Jacobs), who was recently seen with Bachmeier. Refusing to pay her for sex and written info, Cecil is shot by Tina in the hand with a gun, but Tina joins her friend Vicki (Amy Seimetz) in death when Harry shoots them, as he grows overly vengeful.
The following stop takes Harry and Cecil to a law firm office, where they confront and wipe out three unscrupulous lawyers, Bobby (Bobby Moynihan), Eichelberger (David Rasche) and Danny (Adam Brody), for withholding info. The receptionist eventually tells them Bachmeier is at a wedding reception. There, Harry and Cecil show up uninvited and hold the people hostage, although Bachmeier is not present and his sister, Angela (Kristen Wiig) informs them that her family is dysfunctional. After killing many people in attendance, assaulting Angela and shooting her husband, Gary (Garret Dillahunt), a man soon gives them Bachmeier's address.
The film returns to the beginning. Harry pulls up at a house, leaving Cecil in his car to approach an armed Bachmeier at his front door. Harry blames him for Jolly's death, and Bachmeier invites him in like nothing is wrong. The final image shows two shots fired inside the house, though it is only seen from a distance on the outside.