A cat burglar named Yenicall (Jun Ji-hyun) seduces the owner of Leesung Gallery (Shin Ha-kyun), and steals a rare artifact with the help of three other criminals: Popie (Lee Jung-jae), the leader, Zampano (Kim Soo-hyun), the assistant, and Chewing Gum (Kim Hae-sook), a middle-aged woman. They are visited by a detective (Ju Jin-mo) shortly after, and realize that staying in Korea is too dangerous. As such, they join a heist led by a master thief named Macau Park (Kim Yoon-seok), a Korean based in Macau who is also Popie's former boss. Popie brings along Pepsee (Kim Hye-soo), a convicted safe-cracker who was recently released on parole. In Hong Kong, Chen (Simon Yam), Jonny (Derek Tsang) and Andrew (Oh Dal-su) are contacted by Macau Park and agree to enroll, and are joined by a safe-cracker named Julie (Angelica Lee).
Macau Park reveals the target to be Tear of the Sun, a valuable diamond in the possession of Tiffany (Yeh Soo-jung), the mistress of a powerful crime lord named Wei Hong (Ki Gook-seo). The plan is to steal the diamond while Tiffany is visiting a casino in Macau, and to sell it back to Wei Hong, a risky venture seeing that Wei Hong is known for murdering whoever offends him. The team agrees, however, upon learning that the diamond is worth USD 20 million. At this point, it is revealed that Julie is an undercover police officer hoping to arrest Wei Hong. Moreover, that Chen, Johnny, and Andrew are distrustful of Macau Park, and plan to ignore the diamond and run off with Tiffany's money. What is more, Popie and Pepsee have purchased a fake diamond which they intend to swap with the real one. A flash-back reveals that Macau Park, Popie, and Pepsee were formerly a team, but Park's cable had snapped during an escape as he was rapelling, and he had run off with the gold. Pepsee, worried for his safety, had exposed herself to a security camera, leading to her conviction.
With the help of Tiffany's step-sister, Macau Park lays out the plan. Chen and Chewing Gum are to pose as a Japanese couple and keep Tiffany occupied at the gambling table. Yenical and Zampano are to infiltrate Tiffany's private suite through a window and open the door from the inside. Popie, Pepsee, and Julie are to enter the suite and open the two safes, one of which allegedly contains the diamond. As this takes place, Johnny and Andrew must enter the security room and hold the guards at gun-point. All of these actions must be done within 10 minutes, after which the police will arrive. As the plan is being executed, the team, to their dismay, discover that neither of the two safes contains the diamond. As the police rush in, Chen and Chewing Gum try to escape in a car, but Chen is shot dead and the car collides with a wall, killing Chewing Gum. Johnny manages to escape, and so does Yenicall after Zampano surrenders to the police to buy time. In the commotion, Macau Park, disguised as an old janitor, steals the diamond from a safety deposit box. Popie, Pepsee, and Andrew are arrested but fight inside the police van. Popie, Andrew, and the police jump out before the van plunges into a sea, but Pepsee is still hand-cuffed, and nearly drowns, except that Macau Park suddenly arrives and rescues her.
Pepsee regroups with Popie, Yenicall, and Andrew, and they force Tiffany's step-sister to reveal Macau Park's place of exchange, which is the Busan Grand Hotel, located in Busan, South Korea. While the step-sister distracts Macau Park, the four break into Macau Park's room and replace the diamond with the fake one. Macau Park discovers the ruse, and explains to Pepsee that, years before, it was Popie who cut the rapelling cable, making him the traitor. Taking the fake diamond, Macau Park meets with Wei Hong, revealing that his main motive is revenge, as Wei Hong killed Macau Park's father. The meeting is raided by the South Korean police and SWAT and multiple gun-fights ensue. Everyone manages to escape except Popie, who is arrested, and it is shown that the real diamond is actually a second fake, which was swapped by Yenicall.
Pepsee spots Macau Park at Busan Pier, but Wei Hong arrives to kill him, and Julie arrives to arrest Pepsee. After Wei Hong opens fire, Julie turns her attention on Wei Hong and shoots him to death, while Macau Park and Pepsee escape. Pepsee returns to Korea and learns that Yenicall has travelled to Hong Kong again, hoping to find another buyer for the diamond. Pepsee also finds a gift of gold bars left by Macau Park. The story concludes with Pepsee meeting Leesung Gallery's owner, whom Yenicall had seduced, and asking him to buy the diamond. Before the exchange can take place, Macau Park calls Pepsee and reveals that he has infiltrated Yenicall's hotel room and stolen the diamond, and he promises that Pepsee will reunite with him soon.