The Russo family, Harper, and Alex's boyfriend, Mason, arrange "another" congratulations party for Justin for taking over WizTech. A student named Dominic visits the family to inform them that Justin is too busy to get away from work, and flirts with Alex, which makes Mason jealous. Jerry announces a family reunion in Tuscany, Italy. Alex creates a portal between Italy and New York to ease the travel, but gets scolded by Jerry for being immaturely selfish.
After a talk with Dominic, Alex tries to prove that she is not the irresponsible wizard she used to be by casting a spell to expel the negative parts of her personality, but accidentally creates an evil reflection of herself in the mirror. The evil Alex escapes the mirror and runs to Italy. Meanwhile, Max gets the attention of an Italian girl and tries to find her, and Jerry and Theresa follow to get him back. They accidentally meet with their cousins and the reunion begins early.
Evil Alex shrinks and imprisons Max, Jerry, and Theresa with the help of another anonymous wizard, who is later revealed to be Dominic. Harper and Alex follow them to the Leaning Tower of Pisa, where Harper is also captured. Dominic wants to take over the world by using Alex's magic to capture all mortals in tiny beads through a spell replicator installed at the top of the tower. When she refuses, Evil Alex goes to capture Mason.
To save her family, Alex goes through with Dominic's plan, and, when she gets the bracelet her family is trapped in, is about to reverse the spell. She is instantly transported away and found guilty of attempting to destroy the mortal world, with Dominic's twisted testimony. She is later saved by Mason who manages to escape captivity. The two race back to the Leaning Tower of Pisa, where evil Alex and good Alex end up in a battle by magic and combat at the Russo house and the Jumbotron, while Mason fights Dominic. Alex manages to rescue her family from Evil Alex's hands.
When Dominic knocks out Mason, Alex is about to defeat him. Evil Alex and Dominic join forces against her, but she manages to destroy one of them and free her family. After that, Mason pushes Dominic off the tower. Evil Alex reforms and Alex gives up all of her powers to destroy her evil twin. In the end Alex is given her magic back. The Russo family, Harper and Mason enjoy the rest of their family reunion before heading back to the Sub Station.
The movie ends with Alex telling Harper that they should have to stay in Italy for a while because Jerry and Theresa got upset about their living room being destroyed from the battle between both Alexes.