THE SONG follows the story of Jed King (Alan Powell, Anthem Lights lead singer) an aspiring singer/songwriter who wrestles with the personal and professional struggles of pursuing stardom and a quest for significance. The son of country legend David King, Jed struggles to step out from under the dim shadow cast by his fathers tainted reputation. Bent on making a name for himself he reluctantly accepts a gig at a local vineyard harvest festival. This decision changes everything. Jed meets Rose (Ali Faulkner, TWILIGHT: BREAKING DAWN) the vineyard owners daughter and a sweet yet sometimes heated romance ensues.The morning following their wedding ceremony Jed wakes up early to write Rose "The Song," which soon becomes a breakout hit launching an iconic music career. After a few years touring on the road his rise to fame begins to take its toll on his and Roses marriage. Warm-up artist Shelby Bale (Caitlin Nicol- Thomas, "Nashville"), joins Jeds tour and their lives begin to spiral downward and completely out of control. Jed eventually succumbs to the temptations of Shelby and infidelity, alcohol abuse and drugs finally lead to an on-stage meltdown.Jed is faced head-on with the question, what is a man if he gains the whole world but loses his life? A question many wrestle with at some point along their lifes journey. Viewers will walk out of the theatre inspired by THE SONG and encouraged to pursue a life of significance yet challenged with the question, From where does true significance come?The Song is a modern day adaption of Song of Solomon. Executive Producer, Kyle Idleman (author of Not a Fan) does not apologize for the movie being referenced as the sexiest Christian movie released to date. I believe the greatest way to impact culture is for the church to come out from under its hidden covers when it comes to issues like sex, love and marriage. As long as the church community remains silent on these issues popular culture will continue to shape how we think about them.I highly recommend this movie as well as its soundtrack. I plan to see it again with my family and friends this weekend. THE SONG is truly at the top of my list of best romantic movies of the year as well as best faith-based romantic movie released to date. Make plans to be in the theatre opening weekend you wont be disappointed. The Song is a movie worth your dollars and one that will leave you moved and inspired by the power of true love.