Scary Antics, a struggling reality show about pranking people, finds its next "chump" in the form of Jacob (Norbert Velez), an awkward young man who is convinced that the abandoned chemical plant where his father died is haunted. Jacob was brought to the attention of the show by his friend Adam, who believes that pranking Jacob might scare him enough to make him move past his father's death, and his obsession with the plant.
Adam (Reggie Peters), his girlfriend Carla (Daniela Larez), and her friend Melanie (Gema Calero) are to take Jacob to the plant, and explore it with him as Gary (Giordan Diaz) the host of Scary Antics, and three members of the show's crew - David (Todd Bruno), Steven (Tom Stedham), and Brenda (Aniela McGuinness) - watch them through cameras while situated in a sealed office. Jacob finds and puts on an incomplete hazmat suit before an actor named Ed (Dennis Spain), who is wearing a full hazmat suit, jumps out to frighten him. Panicking, Jacob kills him with an old fire axe, and seemingly has a psychotic break due to realizing what he has done, and that he is the butt of an elaborate joke. Jacob dons Ed's mask, murders Adam and Carla, and chases Melanie to the office, which he is unable to break into. Melanie and the others are trapped without sustenance, no way to contact help, and with no one knowing where they are due to the host going ahead with filming without informing the network, which required permits and documents that he could not afford.
After Jacob kills technician Tim (Mario Nalini) when he stops by, Gary and Steven use their only map to locate the back exit, which Jacob locks after catching and murdering the two. Brenda goes out and reclaims the map, but is followed back to the office by Jacob, who forces his way in before the door can be resealed. Jacob axes David while Melanie and Brenda make a run for it, trying to use the map to find another way out. Jacob finds the two, kills Melanie, and fights Brenda. During the struggle, Brenda pulls off Jacob's mask to reveal that his face and head have become disfigured and corpse-like, implying that he is possessed, and that the plant really is haunted. Brenda incapacitates Jacob, and reaches the other exit she and Melanie were looking for, but before she can escape the recovered Jacob pulls her back inside, and hacks her to pieces.