The crew of a popular home-improvement TV show heads to a remote village in Moldova to film a follow-up segment about an American homeowner, Becky, who's been transforming a rundown house into an artist's haven. The crew, consisting of Greg, Alex, and newcomer Sarah, meet up with their producer Kate and a Moldovian businessman named Vladimir. While getting some footage of the town, Greg and Sarah sneak into a funeral and attempt to record it, only to be exposed when Kate calls them. A police officer manages to calm the furious crowd before ordering them to leave.
The crew continue filming over the next few days, only to repeatedly find themselves at the receiving end of hostility and suspicion from the locals, including an old woman who sneaks into Sarah's hotel room to chant a prayer at her. Vladimir tells the crew a story about how the village had once been struck by a plague, and they accused a woman who lived alone outside of town of being a witch before burning her at the stake. Becky shows the crew a mural on the wall of her cellar that depicts the story.
The crew go to a bar and attempt to make peace with the locals, only for a drunk Sarah to instigate a fight by loudly shouting "witch". The next day, they rush to finish filming at Becky's home so they can leave Moldova as soon as possible. However, they discover their car has been vandalized and rendered unusable, forcing them to spend the night with Becky and wait for her boyfriend to arrive the next morning. Vladimir offers to walk to town and bring back a taxi.
A few hours later, Becky and Sarah discover Vladimir's dead body crucified onto an outdoor furnace, and the crew barricade themselves inside the house. Later that night Kate disappears, and they find her nailed to the roof of the barn with her intestines hanging out. Sarah spots Becky's boyfriends car in the barn, and she and Alex believe that Becky is killing everyone as vengeance for Kate having an affair with her boyfriend six months prior. The villagers begin breaking into the house, forcing everyone to flee into the basement. There, Sarah uncovers a mural that depicts the production crew's entire stay in Moldova, including their deaths, as well as a demonic Becky surrounded by fire.
Becky reveals herself as a real witch (implied to be the same witch as in Vladimir's story) who brought the crew to Moldova to witness her vengeance on the villagers, and she drinks from a large vat of blood that has the decomposed body of her boyfriend floating in it. She disintegrates Greg, prompting Sarah and Alex to escape into the woods. They run into an angry mob of villagers, and Sarah is murdered by the police officer with an axe to the head. Becky appears and uses her powers to brutally and bloodily kill all of the villagers while a terrified Alex records everything. After everyone is dead, Becky orders Alex to share the footage of her rampage with the world before disappearing. The film ends as a blood-soaked and traumatized Alex wonders how he will explain everything to his boss.