Freida (Sarah-Jane Dias) is a fashion photographer who invites a group of friends to her family's home to announce that she is getting married. The group consists of Madhurita or Mad (Anushka Manchanda), a Bollywood singer, Pamela Jaswal or Pammy (Pavleen Gujral), a trophy wife, Suranjana or Su (Sandhya Mridul), a businesswoman, Nargis (Tannishtha Chatterjee), an activist and Joanna or Jo (Amrit Maghera), an aspiring actress. The announcement sets off a chain of reactions, letting out hidden secrets. After the announcement, the wild bunch of girls from all over India descends upon Goa. Thus begins an impromptu bachelorette party, and a riotous roller-coaster ride of girl-bonding. Amidst the fun and frenzy, the girls are oblivious of the impending doom and go on living life like there is no tomorrow.
Everything's set for a night of celebration. There's only one issue: Frieda won't say who her betrothed is. As they banter their way through celebration, their conversation, derived entirely from improvisations among the actors, covers everything from sex to street harassment to the buff (and often shirtless) next-door neighbour. During the trip, the women are harassed and they react boldly. Their harassers are enraged and they are shaken. As the holiday progresses, we become acquainted with the women's dreams, desires, fears and, above all, their unwavering bond with one another -a bond that eventually takes them to extreme lengths. Later, the ladies come to know that Freida is getting married to Nargis (which is illegal under the IPC section 377). A night before the marriage, the group decides to party . At the party, a heated argument between Jo and the ladies regarding her accent leads Jo to walk out, but the party continues till late in the night. When they decide to go home, they look about for Jo . She is found dead on the beach, apparently raped. The doctor, who arrives in the ambulance, refuses to remove her before the police come as she is already dead. The police reach shortly and the police officer in charge (Adil Hussain) conducts his preliminary inquiries in a manner that shames the women, reiterating their lack of faith in a patriarchal society that treats women shabbily. They go home, distraught and frustrated. Su's daughter Maya had followed Jo when she left the party and took photos of her subsequently. The pictures reveal that it is the group of men who had harassed the friends earlier that raped Jo. One of the women, Su, heads back to the beach with a gun. The rest of the group chases after her. Su shoots 3 of the rapists before Nargis stops her, Mad takes the gun and kills the other two. At Jo's funeral, the group makes a series of sentimental speeches, Nargis' speech summarizing the worth of a woman and hopes that in the next lives of women, they would be able to write their own stories. The police officer interrupts the ceremony, asking for a confession of guilt from the women and wanting them to stand up. The story has an open-ended conclusion with the entire congregation in the church standing up in solidarity with the women.