The anthology is framed by stop-motion-animated segments depicting a walking dollhouse, directed by Sofia Carrillo.
=== The Box ===
Written and directed by Jovanka Vuckovic based on the short story by Jack Ketchum
While riding on a train with his mother Susan, a young boy, Danny, sees an old man with a red box; the old man describes it as "a present" and allows Danny to look inside. After looking, Danny refuses to eat any food presented to him. Susan and her husband Robert start to worry about him, taking him to a doctor who finds that Danny has lost five pounds since his last checkup. Danny speaks with his sister Jenny, and soon after, she refuses to eat as well. Robert attempts to speak to Danny about his refusal to eat, but Danny whispers something in his ear, which causes Robert to start refusing food.
Susan is haunted by a dream of her family happily eating her at the dinner table. Come Christmas, Danny, Jenny, and Robert are all emaciated, but don't seem to mind. Susan reveals in a voiceover that all three members of her family later died of starvation, and she is now searching the trains for the man with the box, unable to stop her curiosity as to what is inside.
=== The Birthday Party ===
Written and directed by Annie Clark, co-written by Roxanne Benjamin
Mary is attempting to hold a birthday party for her daughter Lucy, but when she finds her husband David dead in his home office, she is forced to hide the body. She spends the day frantically trying to conceal David's body from Lucy, nanny Carla, and neighbor Madeleine. She finally buys a panda costume off of a man who comes to sing Lucy a birthday song, and hides the body in the costume.
During the party, Mary does not have time to move the costumed body and is forced to set it up on a seat at the table. Carla bumps the costume, causing it to collapse into Lucy's birthday cake. The body is discovered when Carla, attempting to lift the Panda, accidentally removes the head, and the full title of the film is revealed as the children scream in terror: The Birthday Party, or, The Memory Lucy Suppressed From Her Seventh Birthday That Wasn't Really Her Mom's Fault (Even Though Her Therapist Says It's Probably Why She Fears Intimacy).
=== Don't Fall ===
Written and directed by Roxanne Benjamin
Four friends - Paul, Gretchen, Jess, and Jay - are all on an expedition out in the desert. Gretchen is afraid of heights. The four discover an ancient cave painting depicting an evil spirit before camping out for the night. Gretchen is attacked by a creature similar to the spirit in the painting, which takes over her body and wears her skin. It kills Paul and Jay before chasing Jess, who breaks her leg. The Gretchen-creature leaps off a high cliff to kill Jess.
=== Her Only Living Son ===
Written and directed by Karyn Kusama
Single mother Cora's rebellious son, Andy, is about to turn 18. She is called into Andy's school to meet with the principal regarding an incident in which Andy tore off a classmate's fingernails. The principal suspends the classmate and warns Cora that something must be done about Andy's behavior.
Cora's mailman Chet hints that Andy is not necessarily her distant former husband's son. Andy - whose voice has changed and finger and toenails have become claws - confirms her suspicions: he is the spawn of Satan. Andy forces Cora to bow down to him, but she then embraces and quickly tells her son the reason she went into hiding. Her details about his conception and the people involved allude to the possibility that he is Rosemary's baby. The two hold each other so tightly that they crush each other's ribs, killing each other.