Jackie is a recovering alcoholic that is moving into Havenhurst, an apartment complex in New York City run by Eleanor Mudgett and her son Ezra, who also serves as the building's maintenance man. She is given the warning that she must remain sober while living in Havenhurst or she will be swiftly evicted. While living there, Jackie begins looking for evidence about her friend Danielle, who previously lived in Havenhurst, unaware that the latter was brutally murdered along with her addict boyfriend shortly after receiving an eviction notice. She also meets some of the building's residents, notably a young teen named Sarah, who lives with her foster parents Tammy and Wayne, the latter of whom is an abusive alcoholic. Some time after moving in Jackie hears one of her neighbors, Paula, getting murdered because she returned to prostitution and reports it to a detective friend of hers, Tim. She also discovers an incomplete map that Danielle had created before her death and Sarah gives Jackie Danielle's camera, which contains film that Jackie has developed. The map shows that the building is far larger than it appears, as it has several secret rooms.
Later Sarah is attacked by Wayne, who is abducted by Eleanor's other son Jed, a serial killer that has been using the secret rooms to hide himself and his crimes, as he has been murdering people who have been served eviction notices. Tammy also becomes one of Jed's victims, as she and Wayne had been sent an eviction notice due to Wayne's alcoholism and abuse. After discovering their apartment covered in blood, Jackie tries to show Tim the apartment in order to prove that something bad is happening, only for it to have been cleaned prior to his arrival. After Tim leaves Jackie decides to start drinking in order to receive an eviction notice and discover the building's secrets.
She and Sarah, who is now staying with her, go down to the laundry room and discover a secret passage that leads to a room containing records showing that Eleanor and her children are descendants of serial killer H. H. Holmes and have inherited his murderous disposition. They soon find, however, that they have been discovered by the murderous family and are chased throughout the building, unable to leave. Jackie manages to call Tim in the hopes of summoning help, only for Sarah to get captured. She manages to rescue Sarah and help her escape the building, but is captured and presumably murdered. Shortly thereafter Tim arrives with several police officers but is unable to do anything as there is no evidence that the disappearances are sinister in nature and ends up leaving unsatisfied. Once he and the others are gone Eleanor speaks to Sarah and convinces her to join her family and assist in the future murders.