Lolita (Anna Morna), a young woman from a far off planet, hands in an essay on Earth culture which she receives a poor grade. Her professor Zarron (Mick Manning) sends her down to Earth to study the culture. Lolita arrives on Earth and meets 3 college roommates Sara (Christine Nguyen), Brandy (Karlie Montana), and Joe (Seth Gamble) that agree to let Lolita move in with them.
While Sara and Brandy are at work Joe teaches Lolita about sex at the pool. Afterward she teleports back to her home planet and found it easier to show her professor what she had learned rather than explain it verbally. He instructs her to watch how humans have sex and then teleports her back to Earth.
When Lolita returns she goes with Brandy to shadow her at her job as a candy striper at the nearby hospital where they encounter Mr. Reynolds (Alec Knight), a patient that is interested in Brandy. Lolita uses her special power of suggestion to get Brandy to break hospital rules and have sex with Reynolds.
After they return home Lolita goes to the local pub where Sara and Joe work and meets Sara's boyfriend, Greg (Chad White), and decides to have sex with him. After they are done she agrees to find out if Sara loves him or is only interested in his money. The next day Lolita and Sara are sunning by the pool and Lolita finds out that Sara does love him and tells Greg that night at the pub. After telling him, Greg convinces Lolita to steal the money from the cash register and give it to him.
The next day Greg gives Sara a necklace and she is so happy she has sex with him. When they are done everybody comes to the house where Lolita tells everyone she is an alien and that she stole the money that bought the necklace. With her special powers, Lolita returns the necklace and stolen money and Sara makes Greg leave. To thank Lolita, Sara has sex with her so she can experience lesbianism.
After the are done Lolita wipes her memory from everyone's brain and returns home where her professor gives her an 'A' on her report.