All over todays world we can witness acts of civil disobedience against the ruling powers. The
groups of protesters often consist of a wide range of different interest groups. At times these alliances
are able to bridge deeply rooted conflicts in order to unite for a common cause. One such alliance
formed out of the most unlikely parties during the Turkish protests against the ruling AK party and
Prime Minister Erdogan in June 2013. For years fans of the three main football clubs in Istanbul
(Besiktas, Fenerbahce and Galatasaray) have been known all over Europe for their unconditional
support of their teams and their mutual rivalry that often resulted in extremely violent clashes against
each other or the police, with countless injuries and even deaths. Then something remarkable
happened: during the demonstrations and clashes fans of the competing football teams united for a
common cause for the first time ever. People notorious for their mutual hate stood side by side not
only fighting the police but using their experience to help other protesters dealing with tear gas attacks
and by building barricades.Soon a name for their alliance was found: Istanbul United.Although the protests faded away, their aftereffects are still present. The Turkish state is coming down
hard on the fan groups. Due to harsh restrictions regarding political chants and banners in the
stadiums, the ongoing police brutality during matches and mass arrests of fans and their leaders, it is
becoming increasingly difficult for fans to maintain their lifestyle and their fanatic love of their teams
and the game of football.Many of the people who were protesting and fighting at Taksim now find themselves at important
crossroads. Although they still desire to be part of their ultra firms, which they have considered family
their entire lives, some of them now question their beliefs and values and have started to view their
priorities and positions in a completely different way. Even though there always will be a natural rivalry
between supporters of different teams, a feeling of togetherness has evolved between parts of the fan
scene; an understanding that their mutual hate will eventually destroy the one thing that connects
them: the joy of football.On the other hand frictions among supporters of the same team have become visible: leftists,
Islamists and conservatives are now much more aware of their differences and the leaders of the ultra
firms are facing increasing difficulties in holding their groups together. Football once again proves to
be a mirror of society and serves both as unifying and dividing force.