=== Part I ===
A powerful fox known as the Nine-Tails attacks Konoha, the hidden village in the Land of Fire, one of the Five Great Shinobi Countries in the Ninja World. In response, the leader of Konoha, the Fourth Hokage, seals the fox inside the body of his newborn son, Naruto Uzumaki, costing the father's life, making Naruto a host of the beast. As a child, shunned by the Konoha community, they regard Naruto as if he were the Nine-Tails. A decree made by the leader the Third Hokage forbids anyone mentioning the Nine-Tails. Twelve years later, renegade ninja Mizuki reveals the truth to Naruto before he was defeated by him with the Shadow Clone Jutsu technique, earning the respect of his teacher Iruka Umino. Shortly after, Naruto became a ninja and teamed with Sasuke Uchiha, whom he often competes against, and Sakura Haruno, whom he has a crush on, to form a three-person team, Team 7, under an experienced sensei, the elite ninja Kakashi Hatake. Like all the ninja teams from every village, Team 7 is in charge of completing missions requested by villagers, ranging from doing chores and being bodyguards to performing assassinations.
After several missions, and their major one from the Land of Waves, Kakashi allows Team 7 to take part in a ninja exam allowing them to advance to a higher rank and to take part in more difficult missions. During the exams, Orochimaru, a wanted criminal, invades Konoha and kills the Third Hokage for revenge. Because of what happened, it forces one of the three legendary ninjas, Jiraiya, to search with Naruto for Tsunade who got nominated to become the Fifth Hokage. During the search, it revealed that Orochimaru wishes to train Sasuke because of his powerful genetic heritage, the Sharingan. Believing Orochimaru will give him the strength needed to kill his older brother Itachi (who destroyed their clan and joined a criminal organization called Akatsuki), Sasuke soon joins him after a humiliating defeat by his brother. Tsunade sends a group of ninja, including Naruto, to retrieve Sasuke, but Naruto couldn't bring him back to the village. However, Naruto and Sakura do not give up on Sasuke. Naruto leaves Konoha to receive training from Jiraiya to prepare himself for the next time he encounters Sasuke, while Sakura becomes Tsunade's apprentice.
=== Part II ===
Two and a half years later, Naruto returns from his training with Jiraiya. The Akatsuki starts kidnapping the hosts of the powerful Tailed Beasts. Team 7 and other ninja fight against them and search for their teammate Sasuke. The Akatsuki succeeds in capturing and extracting seven of the creatures out of their hosts. The one victim who survived was Gaara, the host of the One-Tail, whose life was saved by Naruto and his comrades. Meanwhile, Sasuke betrays Orochimaru and faces Itachi to take revenge. After Itachi dies in battle, Sasuke learns from the Akatsuki founder Tobi that Itachi received an order from Konoha's superiors to destroy his clan to prevent a coup d'état. He accepted it if he would leave Sasuke alive. Saddened by this revelation, Sasuke joins the Akatsuki to kill Konoha's superiors who orchestrated the Uchihas' elimination and destroy Konoha for revenge. Meanwhile, as Konoha ninjas defeat several Akatsuki members, their figurehead leader, Nagato, kills Jiraiya and devastates Konoha. However, Naruto defeats and redeems him, earning the village's respect and admiration.
With Nagato's eventual death, Tobi, while disguised as one of Konoha's founding fathers Madara Uchiha, announces that he wants to get all nine of the tailed beasts to perform an illusion powerful enough to control all humanity, to create world peace. The leaders of the five ninja villages refuse to help him and instead join forces to confront Tobi and his allies. That decision results in a fourth great ninja war between the combined armies of the Five Great Countries (known as the Allied Shinobi Forces) and Akatsuki's forces of zombie-like ninjas. Naruto, and Killer Bee, the host of the Eight-Tails, head for the battlefield refusing to sit back as instructed. During the conflict, it revealed that Tobi is Obito Uchiha, Kakashi's former teammate thought to be dead. The real Madara saved him, and they have since collaborated. As Sasuke learns the history of Konoha, including the circumstances that led to his clan's downfall, he decides to protect the village and rejoins Naruto and Sakura to thwart Madara and Obito's plans. However, Madara's body ends up possessed by Kaguya Ōtsutsuki, an ancient princess who intends to subdue all humanity. A reformed Obito sacrifices himself to help Team 7 stop her. Once Kaguya is sealed, Madara dies as well. Sasuke takes advantage of the situation and takes control of all the Tailed Beasts, as he reveals his goal of ending the current village system. Naruto confronts Sasuke to dissuade him from his plan, and after they almost kill each other in a final battle, Sasuke admits defeat and reforms. After the war, Kakashi became the Sixth Hokage and pardoned Sasuke of his crimes. Years later, Kakashi steps down while Naruto marries Hinata Hyuga and becomes the Seventh Hokage, raising the next generation.