The camera begins with blinds suddenly opening up. This establishes the starting point of the film where we are brought into a world of lust, envy and crime. The camera slowly tracks back to reveal a woman smoking from the left side of the screen and a man looking intensely at her on the right inside a house. Hard shadows of the blinds are displayed across the man's face while the woman is back lit to create a silhouette. The camera ends the tracking shot, establishing a master shot, revealing a table in between the characters with an unknown board game. The man narrates how his life is going nowhere, stuck with a woman, his wife, whom he suspects has been unfaithful. The words on the board spell out LUST from the wife's side. The wife takes another smoke and exhales as the camera captures a close up of her red lips in slow motion.The husband narrates about her lips and how he first fell in love with them at a club. The scene cuts to the wife and husband at a club at opposite corners of the room. The light is spot lit on both of them. They stare at eachother intensely as the camera cuts between their faces in slow motion, tracking inwards. He narrates that she is his alone; he compares her to jewellery, his most precious treasure. The scene cuts back to the house. He further narrates about what murderous things he would do to anybody who tried to take her away from him. The scene cuts back to the club with the wife smoking at the bar and the husband walking towards her in slow motion. He narrates that he desired his wife to be a prisoner to him, somebody who he could control and manipulate, watching her every move. As he says this, the husband locks his wife in a position where her back is facing his chest and her hands tied, being held tightly by him.The scene cuts back to the house. The husband begins to spell out a name, whilst staring intensely at his wife. He ends up with NICHOLSON. The wife looks at the name and moves her eyes back up to stare at her husband. She takes another puff of smoke and gives a subtle smirk, hinting at the fact that she is proud of what she may have done with Nicholson. The Husband narrates how Nicholson is a close friend of his who works at a club as a bartender, a player who lives life with no consequences. The husband intends to change that with a bullet to his head.The camera cuts to a shot of the husband entering a club. The bouncer is seen conversing with staff and stops the husband on arrival to search him. The Husband narrates how the bouncer could very well be one of the men that slept with his wife, it could be anybody. He further narrates that he is looking for a fight tonight, looking to get noticed and anybody that gets in his way would end up in a hospital wing. As the bouncer checks his pocket, the husband beats him up, breaking his hands and nose, leaving him bleeding on the floor. He advances through the dance floor and sits at the bar. He smiles at Nicholson and begins a casual conversation with him. He mentions his wife, hinting to Nicholson that he knows about their affair. Nicholson's smile slowly begins to fade and quickly takes out his shotgun behind the counter. Before Nicholson could aim, the husband grabs the gun and strikes him on the face, disorientating him. The husband jumps over the counter and repeatedly punches Nicholson in the face whilst he is immobile on the ground. He grabs the shotgun from the counter and shoots Nicholson as he begs for his life.The wife gets out of her chair and puts the kettle on. The husband reveals how he will confront her about her affair when she comes back. The wife returns to the table. The husband stares deep into her eyes, the room begins to shake as the sound of the kettle begins to grow louder and louder. CLACK. The shaking stops and the kettle boils down. The name MAR is spelt. The husband wonders who the letters could be the name of. Could it be Marshall? The husband narrates how Marshall owes him money from a long term debt and figures that taking his life would be a high enough price to cover the costs.The scene cuts to Marshall's house. The husband is seen sitting at the dining table, smoking. A car is seen arriving outside the house. Marshall enters the house and calls his wife, informing her that he is home. He enters the kitchen and sees the husband with a gun at the table. Marshall is confused and starts to panic. The husband tells Marshall that he knows what he has been doing with his wife. Marshall asks where is own wife is. The scene cuts to the living room where the wife is seen tied up to a sofa and Marshall with his arms up in the air at gun point by the husband. The husband tells Marshall to kill himself to save his wife. He further informs him that once he is dead, his wife will be comforted by other men, just like how Marshall comforted the husband's very own wife. Marshall kills himself and the husband begins to smile.The scene cuts back to the house and the wife puts down the letter K spelling MARK. The Husband sees this and narrates how he had killed the wrong person; he was too pre-occupied by who the next perpetrator was that he couldn't wait for all the letters on the board to be revealed. The wife looks at him, slightly moving her head from left to right in disappointment with a smirk. The husband talks about how her smirk is irritating him, questioning himself whether she knows what is happening, whether she is in control of his actions.The husband wonders about how many more men she has cheated him with. He ends up with the word Quantity. She smirks, takes a smoke and puts the name Sven on the board. He becomes angry at the new placement and narrates how there are seven more men out there that have touched his woman and Sven is one of his closest friends. Although Sven is a young priest, he would never have thought of him being an unrighteous individual, giving into such temptation. The Husband narrates about the powerful influence he is aware of that his wife processes over men, a rare beauty that no man can pass. He continues to talk more about Sven, a man whom regularly provides service on Sundays which the husband attends. Whilst the husband is narrating, cuts of Sven reading a prayer in front of fellow church goers is shown.The scene cuts inside of a confession booth with the husband confessing to Sven. Before he speaks, he quotes a passage from the Bible about lust and temptation. He speaks to Sven in the booth, confessing his sins of the murders he has committed over his wife. He explains that she is a demon that consumes men if they get close. Sven says that we are born in sin but man can fight temptation. The husband turns to Sven and questions this, as he implies that he knows what Sven has been up to. The husband aims his gun through the booth and shoots Sven in the head.The scene cuts back to the house and the husband narrates how there are two people down and five more to go. He mentions how he almost forgot about Mark and needed to deal with him as soon as possible. The wife slowly slides the door open from her side of the table, revealing a gun. Four more names are revealed on the board with a total of seven people he has on his kill list. There is one name which is unfinished on the board. As the husband narrates, the wife puts down the rest of the letters to reveal the husbands name. The husband is slow to realise this and before he does, he looks up and is shot by the wife.The husband had killed all of the wife's lovers but when it came to his name, he could not kill himself, only the wife. The wife planned to kill him from the very start, playing a game of death with her husband. The wife sits back down and continues to smoke. The scene cuts to black and the credits roll with audio from the scene playing in the background.