In Sultanpur, a picturesque village in Azad Kashmir, villagers gather to watch a televised cricket match between India and Pakistan. Among them is a pregnant woman (Meher Vij) who, after giving birth, names her daughter Shahida after Shahid Afridi, the player who wins the game for Pakistan. One afternoon, Shahida (Harshaali Malhotra), now six years old, falls off a cliff as she plays, and is saved by an overhanging tree, but was not able to call for help as she was mute. Since Shahida's father, a former Pakistani army man, is unlikely to be granted an Indian visa, her concerned mother takes her to the shrine of Sufi saint Nizamuddin Auliya in Delhi, hoping it will restore Shahida's speech.
Returning from Delhi, the train stops for repairs just short of the Wagah crossing and Shahida gets off to save a lamb. The train drives off before Shahida can re-board it. Shahida boards a freight train, and winds up in Kurukshetra, Haryana. There, she meets Pawan Kumar Chaturvedi alias Bajrangi (Salman Khan), a devout Brahmin and an ardent devotee of the Hindu deity Hanuman. He calls Shahida "Munni" and tries in vain to find where she lives.
In sequences of flashbacks, it is revealed that Bajrangi has been a disappointment to his father, after failing his school exams ten times. When he finally graduates on his eleventh try, his father dies of shock. Bajrangi, looking for a job, he follows the advice of his father and goes to the house of his father's friend and wrestling coach, Dayanand (Sharat Saxena), in Delhi. Having spent time together with his daughter Rasika (Kareena Kapoor Khan), they fall in love with each other and Dayanand promises Rasika's hand in marriage on the condition that Bajrangi get a job and a separate house for himself.
In the present, Bajrangi brings Munni to meet Dayanand, who lets Munni stay, believing that with her fair complexion, Munni must be a Brahmin as well. Munni gets accustomed to being part of the household. It is eventually revealed that Munni is a Pakistani Muslim as she performs Salah at a mosque, and cheers for Shahid Afridi and kisses the Pakistani national flag during a televised India-Pakistan cricket match. An enraged Dayanand orders Bajrangi to make arrangements to have her sent to Pakistan through the Pakistani High Commission, where Bajrangi's pleading fails. He is betrayed by a local travel agent who claims to be able to take Munni to Pakistan without a passport but actually takes her to a brothel, causing him to destroy the brothel and beat up several of its occupants. Bajrangi then vows to take Munni to her parents in Pakistan, in person and without a passport and visa.
Bajrangi and Munni are able to enter Pakistan. Shortly after their arrival, Bajrangi is arrested under suspicions of being an Indian spy. He escapes with Munni and meets Chand Nawab (Nawazuddin Siddiqui), a journalist who works for a Pakistani television channel. Nawab has closely been following the developments. Moved by the story, Nawab joins Bajrangi to help him find Munni's parents. They are joined by an Islamic religious scholar (Om Puri), who helps them avoid capture by police. He directs the group to Azad Kashmir after Munni recognizes an area similar to her hometown in a photo from a calendar.
Nawab documents their journey on video, but his television station channel head (Harssh A. Singh) refuses to air it. Disappointed, he uploads the video to YouTube. While reviewing the footage, Munni recognizes her mother walking by in the background. With a bus driver's assistance, the trio identify Sultanpur as Munni's hometown. They board a bus to Sultanpur, and are stopped by police who are looking for "the Indian spy". Devising a plan to divert their attention, Bajrangi gets off the bus and runs toward the jungle in full view. He gets tracked down, beaten, and shot in the arm. Meanwhile, Nawab and Munni reach Sultanpur, where Munni is finally reunited with her mother.
The videos uploaded by Nawab go viral throughout India and Pakistan. A compassionate senior officer, Hamid Khan (Rajesh Sharma), realizes that Bajrangi is innocent, and has him released, defying the order to keep him in jail, which he felt would be petty on the part of Pakistan. Responding to a call by Nawab, thousands of Pakistanis and Indians congregate at Narowal Check Post, where Bajrangi is to return to India. As Bajrangi crosses the border, Shahida, who is also in the crowd, runs toward the fence and cries out for him with her now regained speech. Bajrangi and Shahida run towards each other and embrace.