The film is framed with footage of an FBI agent, (Matthew Carey), who introduces the footage as material shot during an episode for the paranormal investigation show S.P.I.T. (Spirit Paranormal Investigation Team). Most of the footage is taken from the camera of Harold, who was accompanying the team in order to shoot a documentary, but is interspersed with footage from other cameras on set. The movie then cuts to the start of Harold’s footage.
Harold is shown to be a down-on-his-luck filmmaker, as he finds his normal job (creating footage for a comedy show) unfulfilling and has recently broken up with his girlfriend. He’s hoping that the documentary on S.P.I.T. will give him some much needed exposure in the entertainment world, but is disappointed when he finds that all of the supernatural elements and evidence seen on the show are fake, engineered by their special effects coordinator Bill (Lance Henriksen) for maximum entertainment. Despite this, he decides to continue with filming, as the group will be traveling to Hollows Grove, a former orphanage and hospital known for being exceptionally haunted.
At the site the building’s caretaker Hector (Eddie Perez) tries to convince the group to leave, as he believes the Grove to be genuinely dangerous, as many people have died while investigating the building. However, the group chooses to ignore his advice and enters the building anyway. Once inside, they experience a number of seemingly paranormal events, which they dismiss as some of Bill’s stunts. It’s only when one of the events includes the dead body of a cat that they begin to become unsettled and start wondering if the events are truly real. As the night progresses the group experiences more and more phenomena, forcing them to realize that Hector’s warnings were legitimate. These phenomena also result in separating the group members as they’re attacked and killed one by one. Attempts to escape are unsuccessful. Eventually only Harold remains and he tries one last time to flee, only for him to be attacked and dragged into the building’s basement, where he’s thrown into a boiler and burned alive.
The film ends with Jones stating that the FBI investigated the building and found that there were no survivors save for one member, Julie (Bresha Webb), who is stuck in a coma after she threw herself out of a window. He also informs the viewer that they did find one piece of evidence, a swirling fog trapped in a clear container. As the film ends, a face surfaces in the fog and lunges at the camera. After the credits Julie is shown waking up in the hospital but is also revealed to be supernaturally possessed.