Leah (Morgan Saylor), a young university student, moves in with her best friend Katie (India Menuez) into an apartment in Ridgewood, Queens. One night, after they run out of pot she approaches a group of young Latino men on her corner asking them to sell her drugs. They refuse. Later she invites one of the men, Blue (Brian Marc), into her apartment, who explains that while he's a coke dealer he refuses to do hard drugs. Blue and Leah end up having sex on her rooftop.
After seeing the drugs that Blue deals, Leah tells him he could easily be making sixty dollars compared to the twenty dollars he's been selling them for. She invites him to a party thrown by the magazine she's interning for and Blue is indeed able to mark up his prices to the mostly white crowd.
Emboldened by his success Blue visits his supplier Lloyd (Adrian Martinez) and asks him to give him a kilo of cocaine (another possible meaning for the title "White Girl"). Lloyd agrees and Blue and Leah go to a restaurant for breakfast. While there he is approached by one of his regulars and goes outside to sell to him. He is immediately arrested by an undercover cop as it turns out he's been set up. Leah picks up the kilo and quietly leaves with it.
Leah goes to visit Blue in jail where he tells her that due to his priors he will be getting twenty years in jail. Leah decides to help him, telling him that she has the coke, so the police have no evidence. He tells her to return the kilo to Lloyd and explain the situation. Instead, she finds a lawyer (Chris Noth), intending to deal the coke to pay his fee. He's optimistic that they have a very good case.
Approaching her boss, Kelly (Justin Bartha), Leah manages to sell a third of the kilo. She also enlists Katie and Blue's friends to help move the rest of the coke, while at the same time telling Blue that the lawyer is representing him pro bono. As her debts to Blue's lawyer pile up and Lloyd finds her and threatens her to make her come up with the rest of the money she approaches Kelly for a seventeen thousand dollar loan to cover all the costs. He instead helps her throw a rave with a cover charge in order to get it all. The party is a success but Leah takes too many drugs and wakes up alone with all the money gone.
Leah promises the lawyer she will get him the rest of the money but he tells her to forget about it. He takes her to dinner where he explains that the legal system is unequal and white boys who commit violent crimes are more likely to get off for their crimes then non-violent offenders like Blue. The two end up going to Leah's place where Leah passes out and the lawyer rapes her.
After the rape Leah becomes silent and withdrawn, taking to her bed. She is surprised one day by Blue who arrives in her apartment and crawls into bed with her. He reveals that the lawyer managed to free him and credits Leah with saving his life. Getting on one knee he proposes to her, to which she doesn't give a clear answer.
Walking down the street together Leah and Blue are surprised when Lloyd attacks them both, wanting his money. Blue first hits him over the head with a broken bottle then beats him to death with a wrench. As Leah looks on, Blue silently realizes that she provoked the attack by not returning the coke.
Blue is arrested, watching Leah coldly as he's driven away. Leah is last seen in a classroom, just before the credits.