Noor (Mohammad Abrar), a thirteen-year-old Kashmiri boy from a poor family, meets and becomes deeply infatuated with Firdaus (Tunisha Sharma), the daughter of a rich elite family in Kashmir that employs him. Firdaus' mother, Begum Hazrat Jaan(Tabu), was left heartbroken in her youth and disapproves of Noor's feelings thanks to his low social status. Despite this, Noor and Firdaus grow closer until Hazrat sends Firdaus abroad for school, insulting Noor as she breaks the news.
Years later, Noor (Aditya Roy Kapur) receives a prestigious art scholarship and moves to Delhi, where he encounters Firdaus (Katrina Kaif) again. By this time she is engaged to Bilal (Rahul Bhat), a Pakistani diplomat, but Noor's feelings have not changed and they begin a relationship. After initial friction with Noor, who by this time is a successful artist, Hazrat slowly starts to realise her mistake, but is still adamant that Firdaus should marry Bilal. Hazrat orders Firadus to marry Bilal against her will. A flashback of Hazrat and her lover who left her pregnant and ran away with all her jewels showed why she insisted on Firdaus marrying Bilal and let go of her love. Noor travels for an art show in London where he finds out that the art scholarship was given by Moazam (Ajay Devgn), a terrorist he saved when he was young, and not by Hazrat as he thought. Upset that he has been merely a pawn in Moazam's scheme and realizing that Hazrat has been playing him all along, Noor confronts her in London where she denies manipulating him and bursts into a fit of rage for her former lover Mufti and Noor realizes that she has been seeking redemption by breaking his heart. Noor goes back to the gallery and burns his art work which was related to the memory of Firdaus. Another flashback of Hazrat showed that she loses her baby and Firdaus is her adopted daughter. Hazrat wakes up distraught and commits suicide. At her funeral, Firdaus opens her pendant to find Mufti's picture in it with Hazrat's and realizes that she could never get over her true love for Mufti. With this realization, Firdaus leaves Bilal and reunites with Noor.