Beth (Caitlin FitzGerald) is an actress who is finally beginning to have commercial success appearing in cinematic thrillers and beer commercials which routinely require nudity. She plans a weekend getaway to Big Sur with her best friend Anna (Mackenzie Davis), a struggling actress who works for free in student films.
On the way to Big Sur, Beth is recognized by a fan. Anna soon discovers that Beth has been featured in the "Young Hollywood" edition of a popular magazine. Later that day, the two women have a conversation, during which Anna reveals that she broke up with her boyfriend after getting angry with him, and shoving him rather aggressively.
Anna and Beth go to a bar where Anna flirts with a man who quickly loses interest in her, as he finds her too aggressive. He instead asks out Beth, who accepts his dinner date despite having a boyfriend.
The next day, Anna helps Beth practice for an upcoming audition, after which the two go hiking in the woods, where they encounter Beth's director friend who has wanted to cast Anna in his upcoming short film. Anna is dismayed to learn that Beth was already aware of this offer but never mentioned it to her. Beth accuses Anna of looking at her with contempt, and scurries away.
While hiking alone to their rented cottage, Beth is offered a ride home by a kindly bartender. After returning to the cottage, Beth calls her boyfriend to tell him that Anna is jealous of her, even though Beth still feels insecure about the quality of her acting career. Overhearing the conversation, Anna physically attacks Beth, who flees into the woods with Anna in pursuit-- and the altercation continues there.
The next day, Anna begins to dress in Beth's clothes and acts demurely, much like Beth, who quickly notices Anna's odd behavior (not to mention the fact that she tends to follow Beth around). Anna (as Beth) returns to the bar where she encounters the kindly bartender. The two flirt, and have a tryst.
The following evening, while he and Anna are having dinner at the home of his friends, Anna sees Beth (now acting like Anna) approaching her and flees into the woods, where the two have yet another altercation. Beth attempts to choke Anna, who manages to turn the tables, fatally strangling Beth. Shortly afterward, Beth's body seems to vanish. The following morning, Anna awakens in the woods. As she returns to the house, Anna sees police officers wheeling away a body they found in the woods.