During the Cold War, a secret organization "Patriot" gathered a team of Soviet superheroes, altering and augmenting the DNA of many selected individuals throughout the former state's territory, in order to defend the homeland from supernatural threats. The team includes representatives of the different nationalities of the Soviet Union, while each one of them have long been hiding their true identity.
It was the brainchild of a certain scientist, whose success led to his rival Professor August Kuratov (Stanislav Shirin) to attempt to escape and develop his own failed Module-1 project away from the Soviet authorities. When the military was summoned to arrest him, he bombed the Patriots' laboratory, but survived as he was covered with some chemicals. He builds a machine and augments it on himself to use his newfound powers to generate electricity and control machines, and creates an army of clones as his soldiers, to prove to the world that he is a genius.
In the present day, several walking robots that are used in an exercise turn against their supervising officials and kill them, leading to the Ministry of Defence holding a meeting and decides to use the "Patriot" organization again to find their members, lead by Major Elena Larina (Valeriya Shkirando). Four of them are found and assembled: Ler (Sebestien Sisak), who spends his time meditating in the Khor Virap Monastery in Armenia; Khan (Sanzhar Madiyev), who slices and hacks through several attackers on a plain in Kazakhstan; Ursus (Anton Pampushnyy), who attacks several hunters who trespassed into his cabin in Putorana Plateau in northern Siberia; and Xenia (Alina Lanina), who performs stunts in a circus in Moscow. Their first task is to raid Kuratov's laboratory within an old factory, but they are captured.
Kuratov offers the Guardians to join him, but they refuse. For this, he keeps three of them trapped within a magnetic force field and injures Ler. He later goes to a military facility at Noginsk to control the tanks and other vehicles stationed there, and launches an invasion of Moscow to use the Ostankino Tower and the Federation Tower for his Module-2 Project, so to transmit a signal through an old Soviet satellite which will then be sent to every other satellite orbiting Earth, and use them to control all technology on the world to his will. He also uses a force field to protect his beacon-tower, and destroy several jet fighters that were sent to shoot it. When a collaborator within the Russian military, Major-General Nikolai Dolgov, asks Kuratov for a reward, Kuratov strangles him to death.
While Ler recovers, he reminisces about his superhuman abilities preventing him from aging normally, causing his to retain his age as his wife and grandchildren moved on and passed away. At the meantime, Major Elena frees his other members from Kuratov's laboratory. She sends Kuratov's former rival to study one of the latter's clones, but Kuratov meets him and releases poison gas to kill him. Ursus and the other Guardians are trained in the Patriots' facility and are given suits and weapons.
The Guardians go to Moscow: Xenia and Ursus advance through the streets, Ler defeats several soldiers patrolling an underground car park, and Khan's airplane struggles against Kuratov's force field to fly high enough for him to land on a suitable spot. The three Guardians go into a shopping mall, and cross an iron bar linking the mall to the tower-beacon, but are attacked by more of Kuratov's troops. Khan jumps from the airplane and slices the pipe with Kuratov's troops, and joins the other Guardians.
While the other Guardians figure out a way to destroy the power source for Kuratov's beacon, Xenia touches the power source and damages herself, temporarily disabling the beacon's transmissions and causing the force field to collapse. They battle Kuratov on a platform, but after they fail to defeat and kill him, they leave on another airplane. As Kuratov's beacon interferes with the airplane's controls, Khan cuts off the grappling rope linking them to the falling airplane, and they land to a river.
As they swim up to a road, they considered going back to Kuratov's beacon to destroy it and kill Kuratov, but Major Elena arrives and refuses this. She also tells them that as superhumans, they can also transfer their energy and release it in a blast, but doing so can be fatal. The Guardians touch each other and generate a blast of energy that damages Kuratov's tower, causing Kuratov to fall to his death. Kuratov also boasts that he created the Guardians, but Major Elena replies that they created themselves.
The Guardians recover, and meet with Major Elena at a bridge at the rebuilt Moscow. Although they choose to go back to their normal lives, they also considered continuing their service to the Patriot organization. In a post-credits scene, Elena attacks a soldier after a truck stops, and the soldier answers to her that "Ferrum" sent him for an unspecified mission.