Dounia is a teenage girl living in a housing project on the outskirts of Paris with her mother. She and her best friend Maimouna hustle for money, shoplifting from supermarkets and then reselling their wares on the streets to their classmates.
The two girls have a secret hiding place in the catwalk of a local theatre where they observe dance auditions. Djigui, an untrained dancer, catches Dounia's eye. One day Maimouna dares Dounia to spit on him and she does, resulting in him trying to chase her down. Trying to follow Dounia he ends up slipping and she rescues him by pulling him up from the catwalk.
During school Dounia is expected to be trained as a receptionist, rebelling against her teacher she makes fun of her for having no money and then vows to earn more money than her teacher could ever dream of, before quitting school. One of the older students at school, Rebecca, shows the kids video from a trip abroad and says she wants to go and open a bar and enter the sex tourism industry which is constantly booming. Determined to be part of Rebecca's crew, Dounia observes her giving drugs to Samir and then follows him. Discovering where he hides his drugs, she steals them from him and brings them to Rebecca, telling her that she would do a better job as a dealer. Impressed, Rebecca agrees to let Dounia start working for her.
Rebecca gives Dounia and Maimouna a series of odd jobs which they successfully complete, working up the ranks from chores, to dealing drugs. Rebecca eventually confides in them that she wants to use Dounia as bait to sneak into the apartment of Reda, a rich man, to steal one hundred thousand euros off of him as he once told her where it was hidden in his apartment during a drug binge.
Dounia continues to hide her money in the theatre but when it is gone she confronts Djigui who refuses to give it back.
Dounia and Maimouna succeed in getting the mark to notice Dounia, however when it's time to leave the club they find Samir isn't where he said he would be. Going home Dounia finds Samir having sex with her mother. Enraged she goes to his home and burns his car. When the firefighters show up she throws glass bottles at them leading her to be arrested. When her mother picks her up at the station, the two are berated by Maimouna's parents and Dounia loses Rebecca's favor.
Dounia goes to Djigui to get her money back in order to gain favour back from Rebecca. Djigui tells her he has been hired as the principle dancer in the show and gives her tickets to watch him perform. Instead of going to see him Dounia goes on a date with Reda. He takes her to his apartment and when he leaves to take a shower Dounia begins searching for his secret cache of money. She is discovered by Reda, who savagely beats her before attempting to rape her. Dounia fights back, knocking out Reda and then manages to locate the money. She leaves some of the money with her mother and hides some for Maimouna intending to leave on tour with Djigui.
Before she can go she receives a message from Rebecca who is holding Maimouna hostage until Dounia returns. Dounia brings the money to Rebecca, but she notices that some of it is missing and in a rage, douses Dounia with gasoline and threatens to burn her. Before she can Samir realizes that the money is at her mother's home and leaves to go get it. When Rebecca insults Dounia, she furiously attacks her, and in the ensuing fight Rebecca throws a lighter and the room they are in catches fire with them locked inside. Maimouna is able to knock through a vent but is too large to go through. Rebecca escapes and Maimouna urges Dounia to leave as her face is covered in gas. The money they were fighting over burns behind them. The firemen arrive in time, but wait outside as they are not allowed to fight fires in the neighbourhood anymore without the presence of riot police. Dounia begs them to save her friend, but they are unmoved and say they cannot go inside until the police arrive. By the time the riot police arrive the building explodes and the crowd, furious that they waited so long, begin to attack them.