=== Act I ===
At the Russian Weapons Facility in 1957, Agent Curt Mega has been captured and is tortured for information involving his agency. Agent Owen Cavour is revealed to be one of the Russian operatives, and he and Curt escape the compound, communicating with Cynthia Houston, the director of the Americans and also Barbara Lavernor, who is one of the medical scientists. During the two calls it is learned that Owen works for the British and that Cynthia wants him to work for the Americans and that Curt plans to blow up the facility instead of just give Barb the plans he has stolen. Curt drops a banana peel and leaves it claiming that this whole place will be garbage in a few minutes and sets the timer for three minutes. Russian operatives surround Curt and Owen (Spies are Forever). Curt and Owen run away while the Russians are distracted by the blast and go to make their escape, but Owen trips on the banana peel and falls down, too injured to escape (The Coldest Goodbye).
Four years of grieving time and Curt Mega is back in the Secret Service. In Budapest in 1961, Curt goes to a bar to speak with The Informant. He says the code, "I hear the salty fish from down under is simply to die for" but has some trouble finding him. Once he does, Curt talks to him about his mission, and also implies the Informant's carelessness. The Informant implies Curt's incompetence because of his mysterious partner fatality. The Informant clears the bar and Curt wonders if he can do this again (Spy Again).
Moments later, on the loading dock, a deadly arms deal is going down with The Deadliest Man Alive and Co. and Sergio Santos, a family man (Somebody's Gotta Do It). Curt Mega and Tatiana Slozhno, the Russian Spy, stop the deal from being made, and both The Deadliest Man Alive and Sergio escape. Tatiana and Curt fight for the bomb, but Tatiana is the one who ends up taking it, but Curt grabs a business card from her, which has the hotel she is staying at.
A few days later, at the American Secret Service HQ Curt Mega walks into Cynthia's office, who is on the phone with Vice President Nixon. When she gets off the phone, she expresses her distaste in how the mission went. She talks about The Deadliest Man Alive and tells Curt to be a better spy, giving him some tough love. She talks about how there is a World Peace Gala this week, which is a coming out party for the New Democtatic Republic of Old Socialist Prussian Etc., and she calls the prince an "inexperienced inbred virgin" but she wants an alliance with him to get back at the Russians. She decides to teach Curt the implications of his failure (Keep Your Eyes On The Prize I). Then Curt goes to the A.S.S. Technology lab where he sees Barb again, and she tells him about all the new gadgets they have made and shaves the beard off of his face (Pay Attention). Once she gives Curt everything he needs and sends him on his way, Barb confesses her feelings for Mega (Barb's Lamlet).
At the Richman's Casino, Monte Carlo the following evening, Curt goes undercover to retrieve the bomb Tatiana has stolen (Eyes On The Prize II). Curt embarrasses himself in front of Tatiana along with the help of Richard "Dick" Big. Tatiana leads him up to her room where the Deadliest Man Alive is waiting to capture him. In Tatiana's hotel room, Dr. Baron Von Nazi reveals his plan and reveals why Tatiana is working for him (he has her family). He reveals that she isn't done yet even though she promised and hinted that she may never pay off her debt. He orders The Deadliest Man Alive to kill Mega, and The Deadliest Man Alive proceeds to torture him until he dies. Conflicted, Tatiana decides to aid Mega in his escape and knocks the Deadliest Man Alive unconscious, but while they fight about her motives, the Deadliest Man Alive shoots Mega (Torture Tango).
=== Act II ===