Physician Dominique Corti is the daughter of renowned Canadian surgeon, Lucille Teasdale, and Italian pediatrician, Piero Corti. Dominique was born in northern Uganda, where her parents founded the Lacor Hospital. Through a journey that brings us to Canada, Italy, and Uganda, this documentary explores Dominiques struggle to keep her parents legacy alive.
Much is known about Dominiques mother - one of the first female surgeons in Canada - and the Lacor Hospital, which is today a major African success story. But little is known about Dominique, her life, and her selfless work to keep her parents dream alive. What began in 1959 as a 30-bed bush hospital has become one of the most well respected and fully Africanized medical centres on the continent. The hospital now has 500 beds and 600 staff members, all Ugandans, who treat over 250,000 patients a year. Dominique is President of the Lucille and Piero Corti Foundation in Italy, and a leading member on the Boards of Directors at the Teasdale-Corti Foundation in Canada and at Lacor Hospital.
With her passionate personality and strong moral values, Dominique is rooted in her Canadian and Italian heritage, and works hard to bring hope to the Lacor community. Born in 1962, Dominique grew in and with the hospital, which, against all odds, survived its humble beginnings: one small building run by a handful of nuns with no doctors. The hospital also managed to survive Idi Amins violent regime, the brutal 20-year civil war between the rebels of the Lords Resistance Army and Ugandan government troops, and deadly epidemics, including the world's greatest health challenges: HIV/AIDS and Ebola. Dominique lived through it all, but when the country collapsed, she was finally forced to leave Uganda, and her parents, for her own safety and for a better education.
Her parents came from different backgrounds. Her mother was from a working class family in a francophone neighborhood of Montreal, Quebec. Her father came from a wealthy Italian family of Milan. Dominique speaks perfect Italian, English and French, as well as Acholi, the local language of northern Uganda. Both her parents are now gone. Dr. Teasdale died in 1996 from AIDS contracted while operating on wounded soldiers; Dr. Corti passed away in 2003. Sadly, their chosen successor Dr. Matthew Lukwiya also died, taken during the 2000 Ebola epidemic despite his heroic efforts to contain the disease and protect the community and his staff. Today, it is Dr. Teasdale and Dr. Cortis daughter, Dr. Dominique Corti, who along with many others ensures her parents legacy at Lacor, uniting efforts from Canada, Italy and Uganda.
This film explores Dominiques past through exclusive access to archival footage from the Teasdale-Corti family. Audiences will learn the details of her battle to ensure health access in one of the poorest areas of the world, and the stories behind her tremendous bond with the hospital. Without Lacor Hospital, 250,000 patients would not be treated each year, a remarkable legacy would be lost, and an African success story would disappear. Dominique, a determined and inspiring woman, will move each of us with her story and her strong will to overcome all obstacles to ensure Lacor Hospitals survival.