This show focuses on the love lives of the Oberoi brothers, Omkara and Rudra.
=== Omkara-Gauri's love story ===
Omkara's character is ruthless, rude and strict, whereas Omkara's love interest, Gauri has a playful, free-spirited and happy character. They are very much opposites of each other. The first few episodes shows Om-Gauri as enemies like Shivaay an Annika's love story but this hatred will soon blossom into love. Kali Pratap Thakur tries to marry Gauri forcefully and when Jhanvi, his wife, learns about that, she sets herself on fire. Om sees this and rushes to save her and takes her to the hospital. There he hears some women saying that Jhanvi tried to commit suicide because Kali Thakur was going to divorce her to marry another girl who is much younger than him. Angry, Omkara gets to know that it is none other than Gauri and he calls her characterless and a cheap girl while Gauri tries to tell him that she is being forcefully brought there and has been chained as well. Omkara refuses to listen to her. Finally, she drops her daga and tries to tell Om but he doesn't see the marriage chain. After Om leaves, she finally escapes from there and asks for help from Nahar, Gauri's friend. She tried to break the chain which was put on her feet with an axe. Kali comes there and tries to catch her but Nahar puts the Dandiya/stick in front of him and he falls down. He tries to hurt Nahar but Gauri hits him with the axes. A policeman comes and tells Kali Thakur that he has to come to the police station because his wife Jhanvi died and held him responsible; he lies to him saying that Gauri was forcing him to marry her and then she escaped from there. He says that he won't leave her alone. Gauri comes to the station and tries to leave but Thakur ji's guards come and she hides behind some sacks and when the train is about to leave she runs and boards the train. Omkara also boards the train.
Gauri meets Om again. He tells her that she is so characterless that she left her own marriage and came here. Om taunts Gauri. Gauri tells that she did this out because she was helpless. She tells him that somebody must have hurt him a lot that he has lots of anger in him. She tells him that she doesn't want to see his face again. He also tells her the same and they part ways. Guards see Gauri and run behind her. She sees Om and screams. She looses her balance and falls onto Om. They both fall out from the train and into the river. Om says that if he sees that girl/Gauri then Gauri tells that it is not only her fault. He screams at her saying "who pushes anyone in a moving train". Gauri tells that she didn't push him he was the one who came in between when she was running. She was telling him to come into a side but he didn't listen. She says "the way she screamed even God would have moved from his place but no, you were in the same place" and she asks him who stands near a door when the train is moving. He tells that "who pushes anyone in the moving train". Gauri tells that guards were behind her so she had to do it. Om asks her why does she even do all those things. Gauri tells that if she gives one slap then Om points his finger. She tells him that he doesn't know why those guards were behind him. Om says that he doesn't even want to know why. He tells, that "I only know that I should be in Delhi but no. I am trapped inside a jungle and I don't even no where I am". Gauri keeps talking and goes behind. She tells that go with Gauri Sarma everything will be fine. Om tells Gauri that it is not Sarma but Sharma. She tells that's what I told Sarma. He asks her weather she doesn't know the difference between Sarma and Sharma. He tells that he would stay in the jungle rather than staying with her. She tells then go but there are lots of pits. Om falls into a pit. He gets up. Gauri tells him to move and Om gets hit with an arrow, causing him to fall down. Gauri tries to save Om. She tries to find a herb which can save him and runs to find it, but the guards surround her. She runs and manages to save herself. She takes Om to the masjid/Mosque where she can find the herb when guards come there. Gauri feeds the herb to Om. Om gets saved but Gauri is taken by the guards. He goes.
Kali Thakur tells the villagers to throw stones at Gauri or else what will become of there daughters and daughter-in -law's. They start to throw stones but Gauri's mother and Gauri's friends come and safeguard her from the villagers. When the villagers arrive, Gauri's mother tells Gauri to run. Gauri runs away. She knocks over Om and asks him to save her but he goes away. The guards come and try to kill her but Om saves her. Villager tells him that she is a cheat. Gauri tries to tell them that it's not her who did all this but Kali Thakur. Om tells them not to come forward. They ask him why he is doing this, she doesn't mean anything to him. Om put sindoor/Vermilion on Gauri and tells them that now that he is married to her, no one can do anything to her. The villagers says without the 7 pheres/vows the marriage is incomplete. Om lights some branches, lifts Gauri and goes around the branches and says that Gauri is married to him. Gauri's mother gets happy. Gauri follows Om. He asks her why is she following him, to which she replies that both of them will go in the same direction. He tells he never got married to her, it was just a drama to save her. Om leaves. She tells that whatever happens he is her Pati parmeshwar. At night, Gauri's mother asks her to go to Mumbai, to which she agrees. Om goes to the railway station and sits on the bench. Kali Thakur and his guards come. He tells Kali that he pities him. Kali Thakur says that he doesn't trust Om and starts to beat him up. Om says if he didn't pity him he wouldn't be alive. Guards hit him with a bottle and beats him. Kali Thakur tries to stab him with a sword but Shivaay comes and rescues him and, together, they thrash all the guards. Kali Thakur comes and again tries to stab Om but Om gets away, which leads to Kali Thakur's brother getting stabbed. He gets angry and tries to kill both Shivaay and Om, but they get away. They both leave from there. Kali Thakur is seen dead.
Gauri comes to Mumbai, where a man tricks her and takes her phone and her bags. She then meets Dandy a small time actor. He helps her telling that she is like his sister. Om and Jhanvi have a talk. Om tells that he will be Jhanvi's strength and not her weakness. She replies that she trusts Om so he can do anything he likes. Svethlana is frustrated because no one is doing what she is telling them to do. She tells Om that her food will come upstairs. Om says that it is a tradition that everyone sits in the dining room and eats there. Svetlana says she doesn't understand all these stupid things and will eat in the room. She tells her that they're marrying on Saturday so start preparing to be the groom.
Svethlana comes in her car. Om shouts at her and asks her how can she take the decision of there marriage, to which she tells him not to shout because it can only take a minute to go back to Tej and if she goes back to Tej, Jhanvi's life will be ruined. Gauri prays in the temple. She asks Shankar ji to give her a job. Svethlana's car passes the temple and Mata's chunri falls on her car, due to which the car hits a tree. Gauri goes and gets Svethlana out. She asks someone to call a doctor. Someone calls Svethlana but Gauri takes that call. She gets to know that. Svethlana is looking for a servant. Svethlana regains consciousness and scolds all the people because when she was unconscious, those people were going to loot her. They all get angry and tell her to apologise. She doesn't listen. Gauri takes her and runs away from there. Gauri apologies to Svethlana saying she got the call which was supposed to be hers. Svethlana thanks her. Gauri tells her to give her the servant's job but Svethlana refuses because she wanted to give the job to a man. Svethlana goes away from there. Shivaay convinces Om to marry Svethlana and get close to her so they can find out the hidden past of Svethlana's. Om agrees.
Svethlana comes home and was going to put the lights on when someone comes and puts something on her neck. She calls out "Tej" and turns around to see it was Om. She gets surprised. Om gives her a diamond necklace. Tej sees this and gets jealous seeing, this Jhanvi gets shocked. Om leaves Svethlana seeing Jhanvi. Tej and Jhanvi leave from there. Gauri comes to the Oberoi mansion dressed as a man. She tells the security that Sultana/Svethlana has called she was taken inside Svethlana asks Om. Whether he really wanted to marry her. He says yes. They both hug each other. Om thinks that, "he won't leave her". From the other side Svethlana thinks, "oh Om i'm really cunning what do you think that I will think that you will change your mind so easily?". Svethlana asks Gauri's name. Gauri tells it is Chulbul. Svethlana said that he was not good for this work. Chulbul asks for a chance but Svethlana didn't want to give the job to Chulbul. When Gauri was going out there was an explosion from the kitchen. Svethlana, Gauri, Om and Rudra all rush to the kitchen Jhanvi was in the kitchen she was going to make tea and the fire came from the gas because it was newly installed. Jhanvi's hand was burning Gauri checked from the internet when the hand is burned what to do she was trying to tell them to put some water but Svethlana told her to go Gauri sees the water jug and throws water onto Jhanvi's hand Svethlana's dress gets wet she screams at Gauri and tells her to go,she goes After some time Svethlana goes in to Jhanvi's room. Om asks, "who was that person who threw water on Jhanvi's hand?" Svethlana says it is the new servant which she wanted but she won't take him. Om tells her to take him because of him Jhanvi's hand is not burned so much. Gauri comes out, Richa/her friend calls and tells her that her mother is in hospital Gauri worries she disconnects her phone Svethlana comes and tells her that she will get the job she thanks her but you need to keep an eye on my would-be-husband for 24 hrs she will get three month salary; she refuses, Svethlana scolds her Gauri agrees but she doesn't like to do it.She comes inside the mansion. Omkara comes and she gets shocked. He thanks her for saving Jhanvi's hand or else the infection would have become serious he goes she worries she tells Svethlana that she can't do it Svethlana screams at him saying, that" he can't do anything" she finally agrees. Svetlana talks with Mrs.kapoor Mrs.Kapoor asks how will that servant keep an eye on Om she tells she has a plan for that. At night Gauri comes to sleep she hears some noise she gets up and sees mice she screams and runs to the hall Om comes out Gauri runs and hugs Om Jhanvi,Rudra and Svethlana comes out Rudra sees Gauri hugging Om and says "ma ka ladla bigad gaya/mother's child has been spoiled" Jhanvi stops him. Svethlana asks what happened, she tells there are mice inside her room. Svethlana says impossible how can there be mice in Oberoi mansion.Om tells Rudra to go and see he goes Svethlana there isn't a single room now this room is also gone and tells him to go. Rudra comes and tells "it is not just a mouse it's a mouse army " Om says that Chulbul/Gauri can stay in his room Gauri gets surprised. Tej tells the servant to keep the bed here. Rudra asks what's happening Tej tells, because Jhanvi does not mean anything to him she can sleep somewhere else Om gets angry he tells Chulbul to go Tej stops him and tells him to wait and asks Om why would this servant go Om tells because he doesn't have to watch all the tamasha going inside the house Chulbul sees the problem of that house and thinks what is happening here. Om tells mom will sleep where she should sleep he breaks the bed Tej gets angry and leaves.om's buama enters the show. Om gets some clue about Shwetlana's past. He and chulbul heads together to panchgani to get some information about shwetlana. Shwetlana also follows them as she thinks they got some clue about her. After this, it is revealed that Svetlana is not Svetlana but another girl who has killed real Svetlana. She hires a girl called Maya whom Om meets in a chemical factory where his private detective who was appointed to keep an eye on Svetlana and seek her past's information, but unfortunately was killed before he can give any information. After this the factory catches fire, where according to Om, Maya is killed. After returning home, at night Om sees Maya's spirit roaming around the house. Chulbul doesn't believe it to be a spirit but a game of Svetlana, to haunt Om. After this, with Buama's help Jhanvi overcomes her fear for Tej and demands 2000 crore rupees from him and 50% share of Oberoi Empire which shocks Tej since she never abuses him. Svetlana tries to seek the family's Pushteni necklace and claims to the media being Omkara's going-to-be wife. After this, Om sees Maya's spirit in the balcony where after following her, he fell down but saved by Chulbul/Gauri. Then Chulbul gets to know that Svetlana uses a hologram casting machine to trick Om. He/she gathers some marbles and places them in front of Om's room since he knew that since the machine is broken, Svetlana would order Maya to haunt Om. The duo got the truth of the human-ghost trick but failed to catch Maya as she escaped with Svetlana's help. Chulbul tells Omkara to act like a mad man so that Svetlana thinks him being catched up in her plan which Omkara does. Svetlana was astonished to see Om being caught in her plan, so to keep an eye on Chulbul and Om she places a camera in her handbag and keeps it in Om's room. She finds out that Om has bought a fake knife to play like a mad infront of Svetlana and Maya. Chulbul explains the family that Om has gone mad and is proved when he misbehaves in the family dining table. Svetlana takes the fake knife and replaces it with a real knife. Chulbul comes to know about this and quickly goes to Omkara to say about this dangerous replacement. But before he can tell this to Om, he opens a door which throws Maya and accidentally Om stabs Chulbul. Being in a guilt he tries to kill Svetlana but stopped by the family. After this, Om calls the family doctor Dr.Dang who was taking care of Chulbul. When the doctor sees Svetlana, he was terribly scared seeing her which gives Om a hint that doctor knows Svetlana well. It is revealed that Svetlana and one of her friend once took help from the doctor. Then it is shown that Svetlana went to the hospital once where the doctor worked in the excuse of an accident, here she tries to kill the doctor. In present, it is shown that she hires a King Cobra to kill the doctor so that Om doesn't come to know about her past.Omkara ang Gauri/Chulbul went inside the doctor's house and notice the cobras.While trying to escape they see the doctor and he saves their lives but run away.After reaching home Gauri/Chulbul thanks Shankar/Shiva ji for saving their life and tells him that she will reveal the truth to Omkara that she is not Chulbul but Gauri. She turns into herself and goes into Omkara's room to tell the truth.But he is not there.While searching for him,Gauri meets Jhanvi and asks for her blessings/aashirvaad.She then receives a call from Omkara and talks to him as Chulbul. He tells that Swetlana is going to doctor's cabinet to kill him and tells Chulbul to come soon.She tells that she will come in 5 minutes and promises Shivji that she will reveal the truth to him and tells him that she is going to doctor's cabinet. But while going to the doctor's cabinet, the fuel gets over and they ask lift where they have a romantic moment. After reaching the cabinet, Svetlana tries to kill the doctor but only makes him unconscious. She disguises as a doctor and meets Omkara and Chulbul. They ask where doctor is but she tells she doesn't know.She digs in the doctor alive in the soil after putting him in a box. On the other side Omkara gets angry and tells Svetlana that he will not leave her alone.
=== Rudra-Saumya's/Rudra-Bhavya's love story ===
Rudra-Saumya are married. Saumya loves Rudra but unaware of that she actually loves Rudra. Same with Rudra. As seen in ishqbaaaz Rudra scolds Saumya and tells her that she is the root cause to his problems Saumya gets hurt and leaves from Oberoi mansion in Dil boley Oberoi.
Nandini Rudra's friends engagement was going to be held in a flight. Rudra asks Chubby weather he invited Saumya and Chubby says he didn't invite her after Rudra disconnects his call Chubby calls Saumya. Saumya tells Chubby that she can't attend the engagement and Chuby says that Rudra is also not coming and now you're also not coming. Saumya agrees to come. A girl comes and sees the board which says Nandini Weds Adithya and she tells to her self that she will destroy Adithya Veer. Chubby sees Saumya passing near Rudra so while he was thinking what to do to stop each other from meeting he pushes the baggage carousel. That girl who said that she will kill Adithya veer went to the washroom and shoots a air hostess. Rudra and everyone board the plane Rudra sees a girl and flirts with her and asks her name she tells that her name is Paaki Nandini takes Rudra away. Mohini also boards the plane (the girl who killed the air hostess )she disguised her self as an air hostess. Saumya also comes whe she came inside one of the bottle rolls and hits her foot she screams saying its a chua/mouse.
Rudra sees her and gets shocked but doesn't react much Saumya tells him to move towards the window seat he refuses she said,that she feels like vomiting still Rudra refuses she sits in the other seat. After sometime she felt like vomiting she went to the washroom. After she came out she sees Mohini and his friend killing the pilot she gets scared and locks herself up in the washroom air hostess come and points the gun towards Adithya and Nandini but Rudra comes in front and tells her to shoot him and not them (Adithya and Nandini) Mohini tells that she doesn't care if she wastes another bullet Saumya sees this and gets scared of losing Rudra she comes and stands in front of Rudra. Mohini tells her to move or else she will shoot. She tries to shoot but Saumya fights with her and the bullets get fired. Mohini's friend also gets hurt and at last Mohini tries to shoot Saumya but bullets got over Saumya ties Mohini in to the seat. Mohini screams and asks Saumya why didn't she let Rudra die Saumya gets angry and tells, "because his my husband"Nandini's cousin Paaki gets shocked and screams at Rudra that he got married to this fatty. Nandini tells that is real love of a wife Rudra nods his head and goes towards Saumya he tells Saumya that she was just a mistake he did Saumya gets hurt she goes to the washroom and shuts her self and cries. The controls in the plane fails, everyone falls down. Mohini's friend tells that the plane is going down so somebody has to pull the lever. Rudra tries to pull the lever but he couldn't. Mohini's friend tells some fat man or women can do it Rudra tells that only Chubby can do it but Nandini says, that he is unconscious. Nandini tells that Saumya can do it she tells Rudra to convince her he goes near the washroom and tells Saumya to come out or they'll all die Nandini tell him says not they'll it is us all. Saumya comes and says that she will do it but not for him but for the others she goes and tries to pull the lever but couldn't Rudra also comes and helps her they both pull the lever and the plane goes up everyone falls down Saumya was about to fall but Rudra pull her they have an eye lock everybody claps.
Mohini is been taken by the police she sees Saumya and stops she tells Saumya that she will not spare her if she meets her again. Saumya sits in the chair and drinks water Nandini again tells Rudra that he is doing a bad thing by hurting Saumya she says that if destiny didn't want you both to meet again then she wouldn't have come today Nandini goes. Rudra goes towards Saumya and tells her whatever Nandini said is wrong. If destiny wants this, then I will change the destiny. They go in different directions.