The story revolves around the Shekhari Rajput family – a blind brother Rishabh and his younger sister Geetanjali. The story begins with the love Story of Geetanjali and Captain Abhimanyu Singh Rathore, a military officer. Though refused by her brother, Geetanjali disobeys him and marries Abhimanyu. This outrages Rishabh, but he finally accepts them. The story takes a u-turn with death of Abhimanyu in a car crash. Since his body is not found Geetanjali believes him to be still alive.
The story takes a 7 year leap. There is an entry of a boy named Priyam who tells himself to be an incarnation of Abhimanyu, which he proves to Geetanjali all the time, but her brother does not believe him. He reveals that death of Abhimanyu was a murder not an accident. This causes Geetanjali to spy over. She slowly starts doubting on everyone. She doubts on her brother when learns about Ragini her brothers{rishabh} past and than comes to know that her choti maa, Kavya and Driver were involved in Abhimanyu's murder. But before she could tell anyone, she is trapped in the passage by Ratna. She is saved at the last moment by Priyam. Thinking about how to reveal Choti Maa, she plans Chanda's marriage and lures out the driver Radheshyam who was pretending dead until now. The driver Radheshyam tries to attack Geetanjali in the party but Rajveer saves her. Then Geetanjali tells everyone that choti maa is responsible for Abhimanyu's death and asks her to leave the house. Priyam scares Rishab that he would be his next target. Next morning Geetanjali meets Ragini and later confronts Rishabh about Ragini and their relationship. Priyam gets kidnapped and Geetanjali blames Rishab for it. In the evening during the karwa chauth function, Geetanjali gets stuck in the fire and a masked man saves her. The masked man is revealed to be Abhimanyu. Meanwhile, police bring back Priyam. Both Priyam and Abhimanyu together say,"main aa gaya hun gaura, tumhara abhimanyu laut aaya hai" Geetanjali is too tensed on seeing Abhimanyu as he says that he has lost his memory on the accident and remembers nothing but her name. Geetanjali runs to her room. Abhimanyu challenges Priyam in gun assembling competition and wins the competition. Geetanjali burns up the things of Abhimanyu and gets unconscious when Rishabh and Abhimanyu break in. Meanwhile, Khushi (Geetanjali's cousin) comes to know that Priyam is a fraud and that he has a very good memory and remembers everything when taught to him. He was a 10 year old orphan not a 6 year old boy and his actual name was Varun. She tries to warn Geetanjali but it's late. By now Priyam already gave the last dose of pills to Geetanjali. Later, through Khushi, Rajveer and Rishabh comes to know that Abhimanyu had adopted Priyam to make Geetanjali mad and their staff was loyal to Abhimanyu and they used to give illusion pills to Geetanjali so that she gets the illusion of Abhimanyu's ghost, all this was done by Abhimanyu and his family to take revenge for their daughter's death (Ragini who was Abhimanyu's elder sister. She committed suicide after Rishabh ditched her on the last moment of wedding. It is believed from the previous episodes that Rishabh was madly in love with her and used to hear her voice recordings. Also Ragini is the mystery behind Abhimanyu's favorite song "Lag ja galle" which is hated by Rishabh.) But Geetanjali knew it, as she had found a microphone-speaker which falled from Priyam's ear and heard their plan. She vows to take revenge from Abhimanyu for the fraud and cheating. Geetanjali sets up her fake murder story with the help of Rajveer and plans to blame Abhimanyu for it. Geetanjali and Rajveer got the evidence to prove Abhimanyu culprit but abhimanyu runs away to Bikaner. This was their trap to get revenge from him. In the train to Bikaner Geetanjali disguise as a banjaran Chamki but Abhimanyu didn't see her face. After the train reached Bikaner he saw her face and was shocked. He followed her to a fair where she displays her aiming skills. Abhimanyu took three test to confirm her identity, about which Geetanjali and Rajveer knew already. He took her knife for figure print test but Geetanjali was wearing gloves, they swapped DNA test reports and the last test was Geetanjali's phobia. Geetanjali is Claustrophobic but when Abhimanyu tested her she faught her fear and passed the test. Abhimanyu told her whole story and asked for her help. Firstly Chamki refused but then agreed for sake of money. Inspector saw Geetanjali and believed that she's alive and Abhimanyu's charges are cleared. Rishabh didn't believed her and thought she was a fraud. In order to check her he took her to Geetanjali's horse, who allows only Geetanjali to ride on him. When Geetanjali was riding the horse she knew the horse recognized her and Abhimanyu will get doubtful about her identity so Rajveer used an ultrasonic whistle who's voice is heard by the animals only, and animal become restless hearing that sound. With this Rishabh gets confirmed that the girl is a fraud and Bhavani started believing her loyalty. She asks half of the property as fees for acting as Geetanjali. Slowly they target Abhimanyu to to doubt on everyone for different reasons. Later it came to know that the Inspector who was the incharge of Geetanjali's murder, the doctor who treated Geetanjali before declaring her dead and Rajveer were childhood friends and they helped them in every single step. First Abhimanyu doubts on Ratana for trying to kill Chamki and frame him for Geetanjali's murder. He orders her to prove her loyalty by transforming Chamki to Geetanjali so that everyone in Geetanjali's birthday party believes that Geetanjali is alive, but on the other hand Rishabh is trying to kill Chamki so that Abhimanyu gets the punishment of his deeds. Rishab and Munshi hire a killer to kill Chamki at Geetanjali's birthday party. However, Rishab finds out Chamki is Geetanjali and saves her from the arrow. He gets wounded and Geetanjali screams and cries. Abhimanyu is once again suspicious of her being Gaura and kidnaps her. They have a brawl and Abhimanyu once again believes Chamki to be different than Gaura because Chamki didn't have the knife mark on her back. Abhimanyu and Chamki reconcile and Chamki is dropped off at the hospital to continue her acting as the loyal sister. Meanwhile, it is revealed that Kavya is Bhavani's illegitimate daughter. Bhavani had raped Ratna and got her impregnated. To hide that fact, he got her married to Rishab's father. Kavya is shocked and leaves the room and cries to god for being so unfair. Just then, Munshi comes and tells her the truth of Chamki. Kavya goes to the hospital to clarify what Munshi said is right or not. In his subconscious sense, Rishab blurts out all the truth and Kavya finally knows that Geetanjali is Chamki. Munshi and Kavya drug Rishab and just when Geetanjali arrives at the hospital, Kavya blackmails Rajveer and Geetanjali. She puts up the condition that if they want to keep everything a secret, Geetanjali has to transfer all the property to Kavya and Rajveer has to marry her. Geetanjali refuses but Kavya, with the help of Munshi, scares Geetanjali by taking off Rishab's oxygen mask and tells Geetanjali that she will kill Rishab. Rajveer tells Geetanjali to not give in but Geetanjali agrees. Geetanjali tells her that the property isn't under her name yet and Kavya tells her to seduce Abhimanyu into signing it. Geetanjali returns home and cries about how she has to be close to the person she hates the most.